VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

BYE-LAWS

(As per Performa given in Exhibit-"B" of FORM-‘A' prescribed by Rule 3 of the
Karnataka Apartment Ownership Rules, 1974)

CHAPTER-I: GENERAL FRAMEWORK

1. SHORT TITLE AND APPLICATION:

(a)  These  Bye-laws  shall  be  called  the  Bye-laws  of  the  “VAISHNAVI  OASIS
APARTMENT OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION”.

(b) The provisions of these Bye-laws apply to all the owners and/or occupants of the building
“Vaishnavi  Oasis”,  all  blocks  situated  at  residentially  converted  land  bearing  Survey.
VAISHNAVI  OASIS  APARTMENT,  Survey  no  128/93,  Anjanapura  60  ft  Road,  J  P
Nagar  9th  Phase  Bangalore  South  Taluk,  Bengaluru  –  560108  and  presently  bearing
BBMP Katha no 128/93, Ward No. 196 of Anjanapura.

(c) All present and future owners, tenants, future tenants or their employees, licensees or any
other  person  who  might  use  the  facilities  of  the  building  in  any  manner,  are  subject  to  the
Regulation set forth in these Bye-laws.

(d)  The  mere  acquisition  or  rental  or  taking  on  lease/license  of  any  of  the  residential
apartment units, hereinafter referred to as the “Apartment” or mere act of occupancy of any
of  the  said  Apartments  will  signify  that  these  Bye-laws  are  accepted,  ratified  and  will  be
complied with at all times.

(e) Any terms mentioned supra to the bye-laws are to be treated as guidelines/suggestions for
harmonious  living  only.  In  case  of  any  unlikely  conflict  between  anything  described  in  the
bye-laws or its sections and the laws of the land, the laws of the land shall prevail.

Page 1 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

2. DEFINITION:

In these Bye-laws, unless the context requires otherwise:

(a) "ACT" means the Karnataka Apartment Ownership Act, 1972.

(b) “APARTMENT” means an apartment unit constructed in the Apartment Complex.

(c) “APARTMENT COMPLEX” means the Vaishnavi Oasis Apartment consisting of A and
B Blocks having 2B+Ground+15 floors and C Block 2B+G+11 Floors constructed on lands
situated in VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT Survey no 93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J
P  Nagar  9th  Phase,  Bangalore  South  Taluk,  Bengaluru  –  560108  measuring 2 Acres 38
Guntas  of  land  and  bounded  on  East  By:  Property  bearing  Re-Survey  No.1  01  ;  West  By:
Property  bearing  Re-Survey  No.92;  North  By:    Halla;  South  By:  Road  together  with  all
common areas, amenities and facilities provided in the Apartment Complex including fixed
assets and moveable assets etc., both existing and future assets.

(d)  "ASSOCIATION"  means  the  “VAISHNAVI  OASIS  APARTMENT  OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION” which consist of all the Apartment Owners constituted for the purpose of
the maintenance of all the Common Areas, Amenities and Facilities enjoyed by the occupants
of all three wings in the Apartment Complex known as “Vaishnavi Oasis Apartment”.

(e)  "BUILDING"  means  the  building  located  at  and  known  as  composite  residentially
converted land bearing  VAISHNAVI  OASIS  APARTMENT  Survey  no  93,  Anjanapura
60  ft  Road,  J  P  Nagar  9th  Phase,  Bangalore  South  Taluk,  Bengaluru  –  560108,
“VAISHNAVI OASIS” and includes the land forming part thereof.

(f)  “COMMON  AREAS,  AMENITIES  AND  FACILITIES  OF  THE  APARTMENT
COMPLEX”  shall  mean  all  common  areas,  amenities  and  facilities  in  respect  of  the  entire
Apartment Complex as mentioned in the Deed of Declaration viz.

i.  The  foundations,  columns,  girders,  beams,  supports,  main  walls,  parapets,  roofs,
halls,  corridors,  lobbies,  stairs,  stairways,  fire-escapes,  entrances  and  exits  of  the
Building.

ii.  The  basement,  cellars,  yards,  gardens  other  than  those  allotted  for  private  use,
parking areas other than those sold, and storage spaces.

Page 2 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

iii.  Installation  of  central  services,  such  as  power,  light,  gas,  hot  and  cold  water,
heating,  refrigeration,  air-conditioning  and  waste  convertor/  incinerating,  elevators,
tanks,  pumps,  motors,  fans,  compressors,  ducts,  filtration,  apparatus  junction  boxes,
communication  facilities  such  as  cable  for  television  and  internet  access,  security
equipment and installations existing for common use.

iv.  All  other  parts  of  the  property  necessary,  or  convenient  to  its  existence,
maintenance and safety, or normally in common use.

(g)  “COMMON  AREAS,  AMENITIES  AND  FACILITIES  OF  THE  BLOCK”  shall  mean
the common areas, amenities and facilities specific to each of the Blocks (i.e., Block ‘A’ ‘B’
and ‘C’) in the Apartment Complex known as “Vaishnavi Oasis Apartment”.

(h)  "DECLARATION"  means  the  instrument  by  which  property  is  submitted  to  the
provisions of the Karnataka Apartment Ownership Act, 1972 and such Declaration may from
time to time be lawfully amended.

(i) ‘FINANCIAL  YEAR’ means the financial  year of the  association shall be from  the 01st
day of April till the 31st day of March of the following year.

(j) ‘He’ includes ‘She’.

(k)  "MANAGEMENT  COMMITTEE"  means  a  Board  of  Managers  consisting  of  09  (nine)
persons, duly elected by the members of the association, all of whom shall be owners of the
Apartments in the “Block A, B & Block C" Buildings and elected in accordance with the bye-
laws. Office Bearers shall also be elected within the Management Committee.

(l) “MANAGER” refers to those elected to the Management Committee by the Members of
the Association.

(m) “MAJORITY OF MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE” shall comprise of at least two thirds
of the total strength of elected board of managers.

(n)  "MAJORITY  OF  OWNERS"  means  51%  of  the  owners/deemed  members  who  are
present in the meeting.

(o)  “MEMBERS”  means  the  Apartment  Owners  of  each  of  the  Apartments  in  each  of  the
Blocks A, B and C in the Apartment Complex and admitted as a Member of  VAISHNAVI
OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION. A proxy of a member shall be allowed
to  vote  in  a  General  Meeting  but  shall  not  be  considered  as  a  Member  for  the  purpose  of

Page 3 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
being elected to the Management Committee. For this purpose, a joint owner or a co-owner
shall  also  be  deemed  to  be  an  owner  but  all  the  joint  owners  together  shall  count  as  one
Member.

(p) “OFFICE BEARERS” means those selected by the Management Committee, from among
the  board  of  Managers  elected  to  the  Management  Committee  by  the  members  of  the
Association.

(r)  "OWNER"  or  "APARTMENT  OWNER"  means  the  person  or  persons  owning  an
apartment  and  an  undivided  interest  in  the  land,  common  areas  and  facilities  in  the
Association as per the percentage specified and established in the Deed of Declaration of the
Association. If the Apartment is not owned in the Individual name, the owner shall represent
only through legally authorized person.

(s) “PRIMARY OWNER” (in case of joint owners of unit) is the Owner whose name appears
first in the membership records of the association for that particular unit.

(t)  "REGISTRAR"  means  the  Competent  Authority  as  defined  under  the  Karnataka
Apartment Ownership Act, 1972

(u) “RESIDENT” means any person staying in the Vaishnavi Oasis Apartment.

(v)  ‘RESERVE  FUND’  means  the  fund  constituted  to  be  credited  with  common  profits,
donations & voluntary contributions received

(w) "SECTION" means a Section of the Karnataka Apartment Ownership Act, 1972.

(x)  ‘SINKING/CORPUS  FUNDS’  means  a  fund  for  taking  up  major  capital  expenditure
/maintenance, renewal of upkeep of common area facilities / works of emergency nature for
repair painting of the building, rectification/modification, addition, alteration of building and
/or of the facilities.

(y) "UNIT" means a dwelling unit in the “Block A, B & C ".

Terms  not  defined  herein  will  have  the  same  meaning  as  given  in  the  Act  (THE
KARNATAKA APARTMENT OWNERSHIP ACT, 1972 and its amendments as in force).

Page 4 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

3. APARTMENT OWNERSHIP:

The building located at residentially converted land bearing Survey no 93, Anjanapura 60 ft
Road,  J  P  Nagar  9th  Phase,  Bangalore  South  Taluk,  Bengaluru  –  560108 and presently
bearing BBMP Katha no. 128/93, Ward No. 196 of Anjanapura and building blocks known as
Block A, Block B, and Block C, the common areas, amenities and facilities of the Apartment
Complex and the common areas, amenities and facilities of each of the blocks located in the
Apartment Complex are submitted to the provisions of the Karnataka Apartment Ownership
Act, 1972.

4. OBJECTIVES OF ASSOCIATION:

The objectives of the Association shall be:

(a)  To  be  and  to  act  as  the  Association  of  the  Apartment  Owners  of  the  building  called
VAISHNAVI  OASIS  constructed  on  residentially  converted  land  bearing  VAISHNAVI
OASIS  APARTMENT  Sy  no  93,  Anjanapura  60  ft  Road,  J  P  Nagar  9th  Phase,
Bangalore  South  Taluk,  Bengaluru  –  560108  and  presently  bearing  BBMP  Katha  no.
128/93,  Ward  No.  196  of  Anjanapura.  (hereinafter  called  "THE  SAID  BUILDING")  who
have filed their respective declarations submitting their Apartments  to  the provisions of the
Act;

(b) To invest or deposit money in schemes of nationalized banks;

(c) To provide for the maintenance and upkeep, repair and replacement of the common areas
and facilities by receiving contributions from the Apartment Owners, if necessary, by raising
loans for that purpose;

(d) To maintain and be fully responsible for all water, electrical, fire, lift, pressure and other
equipment,  AMC's  and  to  comply  with  all  the  conditions  stipulated  in  the  permissions  and
No-Objection Certificates issued by various statutory Authorities post complete handover of
the blocks to the association;

(e) Provide for and do all and any of the matters provided by the bye-laws;

(f) To frame additional rules, with the approval of the Meeting of the Association and after
consulting the competent Authority; and may establish such funds as the General Body may
deem fit for the benefit of the employees of the Association;

Page 5 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(g) To promote harmonious, peaceful coexistence & living among residents of “VAISHNAVI
OASIS”.

(h) The Association shall not act beyond the scope of its object  without duly amending the
provision of these Bye- laws for the purpose;

(i)  To  create  &  sustain  required  infrastructure  (eg.  Security  camera,  gym  equipment,  sports
equipment etc.) for the benefit of members of the association and collect sums for the purpose
as  decided  by  the  management  committee  or  the  members  of  the  association  inclusive  of
management committee from time to time;

(j)  To  do  all  things  necessary  and/or  otherwise  provide  for  the  welfare,  expedient  for  the
attainment of the objectives, specified in these Bye-laws;

5. MEMBERS OF ASSOCIATION:

(a)  All  persons  who  have  purchased  the  constructed  Apartments  in  the  "VAISHNAVI
OASIS”,  shall  execute  respective  Declarations  under  Section  5(2)  of  the  Karnataka
Apartment  Ownership  Act,  1972,  submitting  their  Apartments  to  the  provisions  of  the  Act.
All  persons  who  become  the  owner  of  the  Apartment  shall  become  the  member  of  the
“VAISHNAVI OASIS” and be bound by the Deed of Declaration and Exhibits thereto. All
persons  who  become  the  owner  of  the  Apartment,  their  successors  and  assigns  shall
automatically  become  the  member  of  the  VAISHNAVI  OASIS  APARTMENT  OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION and be bound by the Deed of Declaration, Exhibits thereto and the terms and
regulations of these Bye-laws.

(b) Upon any Apartment Owner selling/transferring his/her/their Apartment to the Transferee,
the  transferer  shall  pay  the  fee  of  Rs.2,000/-  (Rupees  Two  thousand  only)  and  obtain  ‘No
Objection  Certificate’  from  the  Association.  The  transferee  shall  become  a  Member  of  the
Association with same rights and privileges as of the previous Owner/s by paying the fee of
Rs.2,000/- (Rupees Two thousand only) and get  the membership recorded in the register of
members.

(c) On the death of an Apartment Owner, his/her Apartment shall be transferred to the person
or  persons  to  whom  he/she  bequeathed  the  same  by  his/her  Will,  or  to  the  legal
representatives of his/her estate in  case he/she has not having made any specific bequest of
the Apartment. The name of the legatee or the name of the legal representatives jointly, shall
be entered in the register of Apartment Owners maintained by the Secretary, for the purpose
of administration of the “VAISHNAVI OASIS  APARTMENT OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION
Page 6 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
as Apartment  Owners.  Where any legatee is  a minor, any person appointed under a "Will",
will look after the minor’s interest. Transfer fees mentioned in para (b) of this clause shall not
be applicable in this case.

(d)  Nomination:  It  shall  be  permissible  for  the  primary  owner  to  authorize  in  writing  other
joint  owners  (person  aged  18  years  &  above)  /  General  Power  of  Attorney  holders  to
represent  such  owner  to  exercise,  all  or  any  of  the  rights  &  powers  of  to  perform  any  act,
deed  or  thing  under  these  bye  laws,  including  contesting  the  elections  for  the  board  /
management committee. On such authorization any act done by such Owner’s representative
shall be binding on the owner / owners. Such representative shall confirm his acceptance of
the authorization in  writing. Such alternate member shall not  have the power to  file further
nomination  as  set  forth  above.  A  member  may  revoke  or  vary  his  nomination  at  any  time
making a revised /fresh declaration as set forth above & delivering it to the Secretary of the
association.  Proxy  (if  any)  nominated  by  the  GRANTORS  of  the  deed  of  declaration  /
DEVELOPER  on  behalf  of  owners  of  unregistered  properties  and  or  anyone  having  any
commercial interests in VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’ ASSOCIATION in
their  capacity  as  vendors/  service  providers  cannot  contest  elections  or  issue  notice  to  the
association.

(e) On receipt of such nomination or the revised / fresh declaration as to the nomination or
letter  of  revocation,  the  same  shall  be  placed  before  the  meeting  of  the  management
committee  to  be  held  next  for  its  consideration  &  approval.  Every  such  nomination  or
revocation  thereof  shall  enter  in  the  register  of  nominations  by  the  Secretary  of  the
Association  within  a  week  of  the  meeting  of  the  management  committee  in  which  it  was
recorded.

(f) Firm, Company, Association of persons as members: Where a flat has been purchased by
a  firm,  company  or  association  of  persons,  as  the  case  may  be  shall  nominate  /  appoint  a
person to represent itself in the affairs of the association and convey the name of such person
aged 18 years & above accompanied by a lawfully executed and certified declaration or board
resolution  as  applicable  by  the  laws/articles  of  association  or  by-laws  of  nominating  firm,
company or association of persons. The association in all matters of administration deal with
the person nominated as herein before as a member on roll and the said person will have the
right  to  vote.  Such  nominated  person  (except  in  the  case  of  the  developer/GRANTOR
representing the owners of the unregistered units) shall be the member of the Association and
his / her name shall be entered in the register of the members of association.

Page 7 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

(g)  Electronic  version  of
the  VAISHNAVI  OASIS  APARTMENT  OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION bye-laws will be posted in the Apartment Management portal/drive/ online
platform  (if  any)  and  a  copy  of  the  bye  laws  would  be  available  with  the  Management
Committee for any references. All Apartment Owners shall be provided with a copy of these
Bye-Laws, Rules and Regulations of the Association by e-mail to help them familiarize with
the contents.

(h)  The  hard  copy  of  the  bye-laws  can  be  obtained  from  the  VAISHNAVI  OASIS
APARTMENT  OWNER’S  Association  on  payment  of  Rs.  250/-(Rupees  Two  hundred  and
fifty only).

(i) All Owners will have to pay to the Vaishnavi Oasis Apartment Owners Association a sum
as  decided  by  the  Management  Committee  and  circulated  amongst  the  owners  by  way  of
notice / e-mail, mentioning the reason behind requirement for funds, and such amount shall
be  payable  before  the  specified  due  date.  All  revenue  accumulated  shall  be  deposited  in  a
Schedule  Bank/s  to  pursue  lawful  activities  to  effectively  achieve  the  objectives  of  the
Association.  The  Management  Committee  may  also  collect  additional  amounts  towards
CORPUS FUND which has to be utilized towards reconstruction of common buildings or for
carrying  out  structural  additions  or  alterations  to  the  buildings  or  for  carrying  out  heavy
repairs/replacements,  provided  such  amounts  are  approved  by  the  General  Body  with  the
approval of 95% (95% of 256 flats).of the total residents

6. JOINT APARTMENT OWNERS:

(a)  Where  an  Apartment  has  been  purchased  by  two  or  more  persons  jointly,  they  shall  be
jointly entitled to the Apartment, but the person whose names stands first in the membership
records of the Association shall alone have the right to vote or contest in the elections.

(b)  Upon  death  of  a  member,  the  Association  subject  to  its  being  satisfied  of  the  legal
position enter the name of the joint owner in the register of members if there is a single joint
owner. In any case where there are more than two joint owners, then upon death of the named
owner, the joint owner shall be entitled to become the member of the  association subject to
meeting the requirements as set forth above. The joint owner will make an application along
with  certified  copy  of  the  death  certificate  of  the  deceased  member  for  completing  the
formalities.

(c) Automatic succession does not apply to posts /roles/powers held by the earlier member in
the management committee. In such case, vacancies created in the Management Committee

Page 8 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
either due to termination of the primary owner from the board (voluntary / otherwise) are to
be filled by means of election / selection as more fully described in these bye-laws.

(d)  The  joint  owner  (whose  name  does  NOT  stand  first  in  the  ownership  register  can
vote/contest in the election, on him / her being nominated as an official proxy by the primary
owner.

(e)  The  nomination  as  proxy  of  the  primary  owner  to  vote  will  be  valid  for  the  specific
election for which the proxy is nominated.

(f)  The  nomination  as  the  proxy  of  the  owner  to  contest  in  elections  to  the  management
committee shall be valid for the full term of the management committee except in the case of
sale/transfer of property, legal separation or dissolution of the company owning the unit, as
the case may be.

(g) The voting & election contesting rights of the joint members (other than primary) will be
subject  to  the  provisions  of  nomination  as  described  more  fully  in  the  section  5(e)&  (f)  of
these bye-laws.

7. DISQUALIFICATION:

(a)  Membership  of  the  Association  shall  automatically  end  on  a  person  ceasing  to  be  an
owner / joint owner of a flat or on the dissolution of the Association.

(b) No Member shall be entitled to vote in the election of Managers or be entitled to stand for
election to such office if he/she is in arrears of maintenance to the Association for a period of
three months from the due date of such maintenance being payable as on the date of such, if
that  Member  is  in  arrears  on  the  last  date  for  filing  of  nominations,  in  respect  of  the
Member’s contribution for common expenses, Sinking Fund or Corpus Fund and/or any fines
to the Association, for more than 30 (thirty) days.

CHAPTER-II: VOTING, QUORUM AND PROXIES

8. VOTING:

(a)  Each  Apartment  Owner  (whether  joint  Owner  or  otherwise)  shall  have  the  right  of  one
vote for each Apartment; Voting will be by secret ballot, or show of hands, as decided by the
Chairman of the Meeting.

Page 9 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(b)  The  Joint  owner  (when  there  are  only  2  joint  owners)  shall  be  entitled  to  vote  in  the
absence of the Primary owner or under nomination by the Primary owner.

(c) When the number of joint owners exceeds two, the primary owner has to issue a letter of
nomination  authorizing  one  of  the  joint  owners  to  vote  on  his  behalf.  The  nominated  joint
owner  exercising  the  voting  right  has  to  acknowledge  the  nomination  in  writing  to  the
electoral officer / President of the incumbent management committee.

(d) The GRANTORS (builder / developer) whose name appears in the Deed of Declaration
(as the owner of the respective unit) can vote on behalf of the owners of such units which are
yet unregistered. The same procedure for a proxy would apply.

(e) Proxies assigned by the GRANTOR in favour of unregistered or unsold properties, shall
have one vote irrespective of the number of units owned by the member assigning the proxy.

9. QUORUM:

(a) Except as otherwise provided in these Bye-laws,

i.

ii.

The presence in person of 25 owners shall constitute a Quorum for the purpose
of conduct of the Special General Body meeting (GBM) and/or elections to the
management committee.

The presence in person of 100 owners constitute a Quorum for the purpose of
conduct of the Annual General Meeting / Special Meetings.

(b) In case of inability to nominate a proxy to attend, members can authorize vide writing /
email an acceptance of the agenda and instructions to consider his vote either for or against
the  motion  or  at  that  his/her  vote  shall  be  counted  with  the  vote  of  the  majority  of  owners
(and  their  proxies)  physically  present  in  the  meeting.  This  instruction  shall  be  counted  for
quorum & decision making and will be binding on the owner.

10. VOTE TO BE CAST IN PERSONS:

(a) Votes shall be cast in person, or by his/her/their duly constituted Proxy. The Proxy need
not be a Member, but no person may be a proxy for more than 2 members.

(b) Proxies in prescribed form duly signed by the Owner shall be deposited at least 48 (forty
eight) hours before the meeting, at a place designated by the Management Committee for this
purpose.

Page 10 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
The  role  of  proxy  is  only  restricted  to  the  extent  of  casting  of  votes  as  authorized  by  the
members. The proxy cannot participate in the deliberations of the General Body Meeting.

(c) The nomination to  vote can be revoked no later than 3 working days  before the date of
election. (Nomination to contest can be revoked no later than 7 working days before the date
of election).

CHAPTER - III: ADMINISTRATION

11. POWERS AND DUTIES (RESPONSIBILITIES) OF ASSOCIATION:

The  association  will  have  the  responsibility,  through  its  Management  Committee,  of
administering the affairs of the building including maintenance of common areas, amenities
and facilities of the Apartment Complex known as “Vaishnavi Oasis Apartment” and to do
all  such  other  things  that  it  is  entitled  to  do  in  accordance  with  the  Objectives  of  the
Association and consistent with these Bye-Laws and Rules and Regulations to be framed by
the Management Committee from time to time.

The  Association  may  frame  rules  to  amplify  these  bye  laws  and  rules,  which  shall  be
applicable to all Members /Residents after they are passed in the annual general body meeting
or  a  special  general  body  meeting  (“AGM/GBM”).  In  the  event  of  any  doubts  or
contradictions, the bye laws shall prevail over the rules.

The  Association  shall  generally  look  after  and  be  responsible  for  safeguarding,  promoting
and  protecting  rights  and  well-being  of  the  members,  and  enforcing  their  respective
obligations to each other.

The Association shall commence/defend any legal proceedings only in so far as it is related
or  connected  with  and  affects  the  Members  and  the  affairs  of  the  VAISHNAVI  OASIS
APARTMENT & its Residents.

The Association shall promote and strive for a peaceful co-existence among all members of
the Association.

The Association shall prescribe restrictions and conditions for Member/s who transfer or part
with the possession of his ownership of a flat/s in the ‘VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT’
so as to ensure compliance with these bye-laws and rules by the transferee/s.

Page 11 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
The  Association  shall  have  unhindered  access  to  all  its  facilities  located  and  designated  as
Association Office for operation & its maintenance.

The  Association  will  not  be  responsible  for  any  loss  caused  to  members  they  might  have
suffered  by  act  of  God  such  as  earthquake,  flood,  fire,  riot  or  personal  wilful  act  of  any
Member.

In emergency situations, the President and or Secretary can take decisions which may be even
outside  the  purview  of  bye  laws.  However,  the  emergency  situation,  and  the  decision
proposed  to  be  taken  by  the  President  and  or  Secretary  must  be  communicated  to  the
Management Committee through e-mail prior taking action on such decision.

The President and or Secretary shall seek ratification for such decisions in the immediate next
meeting of the Management Committee which shall be held within 15 days from the date of
decision making.

MEMBERS’  RIGHT  TO  TIME  BOUND  DECISION  BY  THE  MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE

A Member may make a request in writing to the Secretary, for a decision by the Management
Committee  on  any  matter  which  affects  him/  group  of  Members  /  all  the  Members  of  the
Association  generally.  The  Member's  request  will  have  to  contain  full  reasons,  suggestions
and financial implications, if any.  The Secretary shall place the same before the Management
Committee at its next meeting.

The Management Committee shall, after hearing the views of the Member in person, decide
on the question, be it in favour or against the Member, and to convey its decision through the
Secretary within 60 (sixty) days of the receipt of the request in writing.

RATIFICATION OF ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE PREVIOUS AD-HOC COMMITTEE

All  actions  taken  by  the  Ad-hoc  Committees  prior  to  formation  of  this  Association  and  all
Rules and Regulations framed by the said Committees shall be deemed to have been ratified
by the Association upon its incorporation.

12. PLACE OF MEETINGS:

(a) Meetings of the Association shall be held at their Registered Office, as may be notified to
all the Members. President  of the Association  shall be the Chairperson  for meetings.  In his
absence, Secretary  will chair these meetings.  In the absence of the above office bearers the

Page 12 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
Chairman  shall  be  decided  by  the  Management  Committee  members  present  (b)  Where  (as
and when) association can provide ICT facilities, dialling in / attending the meeting via web
conference  or  other  equivalent  platforms  is  possible,  as  long  as  a  recording  of  the  meeting
proceedings  shall  be  maintained.  The  presence  of  members  over  online  platforms  shall
happen through login ids pre-registered for the purpose and online presence can be counted
for quorum. The notice for meetings in such cases has to explicitly contain details of the dial-
in/VC/IP/  other  equivalent  hosting  address  of  the  association.  The  cost  associated  with
creation,  provision  or  sustenance  of  such  infrastructure  shall  be  proposed  at  the  AGM  for
approval or ratification.

13. ANNUAL MEETING:

(a) The first meeting of the Members of the Association shall be held within 6 months from
the date of incorporation of the Association.

(b) The subsequent Annual Meetings shall be held at the end of every 12 (twelve) months of
the  preceding  Annual  Meeting.  2  (two)  weeks  before  such  meetings,  the  Management
Committee will be elected by ballot of the Members, in accordance with the requirements of
these Bye-laws. The election of the Management Committee will be ratified by the Members
in  the  Annual  Meeting  and  the  new  Management  Committee  shall  assume  office  from  the
date  of  the  Annual  Meeting.  The  owners  may  also  transact  such  other  business  of  the
association as may properly come before them, including but not limited to amendments of
bye-laws.

(c)  The  Management  Committee  for  the  previous  financial  year  shall  present  the  book  of
accounts along with audited notes and a report of all activities / plans executed during their
term. The same shall be considered for review and approval.

(d) Adopt the budget / estimated expense forecast for the financial  year, for the association
and major repair / maintenance/ works to be funded from Corpus funds, changes to deposits /
income (subject to approval as specified in clause 5 (i) above), maintenance charges, etc. to
the members for approval by vote (show of hands / voice vote).

(e) Change in facility Management Company (if any).

14. SPECIAL MEETINGS:

Page 13 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
It  shall be the duty of the Secretary to  call a Special Meeting of the Apartment  Owners, as
directed by a resolution passed by the Management Committee, or upon a petition signed by
51%  of  the  Members  (excluding  the  developer  /  grantor  in  case  of  unregistered  units)  and
having been presented to the Secretary, or any person authorized under the Act, in this regard.
The  notice  of  any  Special  Meeting  shall  state  the  place,  the  time  of  such  meeting,  purpose
thereof  and  also  attach  the  draft  resolution(s)  to  be  adopted  at  the  Meeting  along  with  an
Explanatory Memorandum explaining the reasons and circumstances necessitating the calling
of the Meeting. No other business shall be transacted at a Special Meeting, except as stated in
the notice, without the consent of two-thirds of the Owners present in person. The quorum for
such Special Meeting shall be as specified in Clause 9(a) above.

15. NOTICE OF MEETINGS:

(a)  It  shall be the duty of  the Secretary to mail  or send  a notice of each  Annual  or Special
Meeting, stating the purpose thereof, as well as the place and the time it is to be held, to each
Apartment  Owner,  at  least  7  days  but  not  more  than  15  days  prior  to  such  meeting.  The
mailing or sending of a notice in the manner provided in these Bye-laws shall be considered
as notice served.

(b)  The  said  notices  will  be  either  by  ordinary  post  or  by  hand  delivery  to  each  of  the
Apartment or electronic communications via emails /portals. Apart from the dispatch stated
above,  the  said  Notices  will  also  be  put  up  on  the  notice  board(s)of  the  building  at  least  7
days before the meeting is to be held; No notice shall be required to be sent in respect of any
adjourned meeting.

16. ADJOURNED MEETINGS:

If  any  meeting  of  the  Members  cannot  be  held  because  a  quorum  has  not  attended,  the
members who are present, may adjourn the meeting to a time not less than half an hour from
the time the original meeting was called.

If at the adjourned meeting also, a quorum is not present, then the aggregate of the members
present  in  person  and  through  proxy  (and  votes  cast  through  e-mail  or  other  such  other
electronic means, if so provided by the Management Committee) is at least 10% of the total
strength of members, then the business set out in the notice (and no other) may be transacted,
without modifications, as if a quorum is present.

17. ORDER OF BUSINESS:

Page 14 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
The order of business, at all meetings (special or general) of the owners of all units, shall be
stipulated by an Agenda that shall include, among other things the following: -

?  Roll Call followed by establishment of quorum;
?  Reading of minutes of preceding meeting; if any
?  Reports of Management Committee if any;
?  Reports of Sub-Committee, if any;
?  Adoption of the Budget for the following year;
?  Amendments, if any, to Rules and Bye laws of the Association;
?  Appointment of auditors & Consultants, if any;
?  To consider, approve, and initiate such action as may be necessary on the reports

of the Secretary and Auditors;

?  To  consider,  approve  and  initiate  such  action  as may  be  necessary  on  reports,  if

any submitted by the committees;

?  To  consider  and  initiate  such  action  as  may  be  necessary  on  the  report  of  the

Registrar, or of the Officer duly authorized by him;

?  To  consider,  and  deal  with  appeals  against  the  action  of  the  Management

Committee, if any, or any Member thereof.

?  Unfinished Business, if any;
?  New Business;

CHAPTER - IV: BOARD OF MANAGERS/
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

18. TERM OF MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:

(a) The Board of Managers, duly elected by the members of the Association, shall hold office
for a maximum term of 03 (Three) years.

(b) However, subsequent to first Management Committee, based on this amended bye-laws, 3
members shall retire after one year, 3 of the remaining members shall retire at the end of the
second year and the remaining 3 members shall retire at the end of the third year.

(c) At the end of the 1st and 2nd year, the retirement of members will be either voluntarily or
picking of chit (first in first out) basis.

Page 15 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(d) New members to replace the retiring members shall be elected before the AGM as per the
election procedure. The details of retiring members shall be finalised two months before the
AGM so that election can be completed for replacements before the AGM.

(e) Retiring members will be eligible to contest after a break of 02(Two) years.

19. COMPOSITION OF THE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:

(a) MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE shall be elected by the members of the association and
consists  of  a  maximum  of  09  (nine)  all  of  whom  shall  be  owners  of  the  Apartments  in  the
"Block A, Block B and Block C" Building and elected in accordance with the bye laws.

(b) The association shall encourage the participation of women in the management committee
& thus would reserve up to 10 % of the total number of vacant seats or a minimum of 1 (one)
seat  for  women  office  bearers.  Nevertheless,  the  restrictions  of  no  two  members  from  the
same family on the board / its sub-committee at all times apply to women office bearers as
well. When the number of nominations of women candidates is less than 10% of the size of
the board (only one), such candidate is deemed to have been elected unopposed. When there
are no nominations received from women members, the positions shall be filled by elections
(no gender bar).

(c) The eligibility of election will be

i.  Resident Primary Owners of the unit OR
ii.  Any  joint  owner  of  the  unit  or  Power  of  Attorney  holder  authorized  by  the  primary
owner. It may be noted that anyone contesting the elections should neither have, nor
be a nominee of anyone having commercial interests in the affairs of VAISHNAVI
OASIS as a vendor/sub-vendor/ services provider etc.

20. MANAGEMENT OF ASSOCIATION:

(a)  The  affairs  of  the  Association  shall  be  governed  by  the  Management  Committee.  The
working hours for the office of the Association which will be manned by the appointed Estate
Manager / Supervisor, shall be from 10.00 hours to 18.30 hours on all 6 days except weekly
holiday (as  decided from  time to time) and other statutory holidays as  may be fixed by the
Management Committee.

Page 16 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

21. POWERS AND DUTIES OF MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:

(a)  The  Management  Committee  shall  have  the  powers  and  duties  necessary  for  the
administration of the affairs of the Association and may do all such acts and things as are by
law or permissible under these Bye-laws directed to be exercised and done by the Owners.

The  Management  Committee  shall  also  have  the  powers  to  appoint  Sub-Committees  from
among  its  Members  or  from  persons  who  are  not  owners,  but  are  wholly  resident  in
Vaishnavi Oasis Apartment and assign such duties to them as may be deem appropriate.

21.1 RESPONSIBILITIES:

The responsibilities shall include the following.

(a) Collection of Maintenance fee and any other payments or dues permissible under the bye
laws.

(b) Provide adequate security & fire fighting facilities for the building & its residents.

(c)  Cleanliness,  maintenance  &  upkeep  of  the  building  including  common  areas  of  the
building.

(d) Safe & adequate water supply in building/ flats.

(e) Maintenance & upkeep of the garden & landscaping

(f)  Common  area  electrical  maintenance  including  elevators  Gym,  Swimming  Pool,  Club
House etc.

(g) Plumbing & sanitary maintenance in the common areas.

(h)  Appointment  /  dismissal,  performance  review  of  salaries  and  all  respects  of  discipline
relating to the staff employed by the Association.

(i) Maintenance of proper accounts relating to the income and expenditure of the association
and preparation of an audited annual statement of accounts as on 31st March of each year.

(j)  Maintenance  of  records  &  minutes  of  meeting  of  every  management  /  general  body
meetings and make them available for inspection by any members of the association.

Page 17 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

21.2 POWER OF THE COMMITTEE:

The Management Committee shall have the power to:

(a) Appoint, dismiss, terminate, discharge or suspend any person as its employee and specify
the purpose, terms & limitations of such appointments.

(b) Make payments, authorize outgoings from the funds of the Association for any purpose
whatsoever provided such payments or outgoings are relatable & bear a nexus to the building,
its  administration,  maintenance  etc.  subject  to  such  limits  as  approved  by  the  bye-laws  or
AGM.

(c)  Cheque  signing  authority  of  the  Association  will  be  with  the  President,  Secretary  &
Treasurer and Joint Secretary as laid down in Clause 40 of these bye-laws.

(d) Ensure that where a member licences or parts, with possession in any manner of his /her
apartment or any portion thereof to any person, such person adheres to these bylaws and rules
in the mutual interest of all members collectively.

(e) Call for an Annual General or Special General Body Meeting for such purpose as maybe
considered appropriate by it.

(f) Implement all decisions & directions of the General Body Meeting within the framework
of these bye-laws.

(g) Determine the quantum & periodicity of contribution that may be required to be made by
each member for the running, maintaining, administering of the building and flats and to seek
enhancement/ alteration to such contribution thereof.

(h) Collect  this  contribution  for the specific purpose of running, maintaining, administering
the building or flats  for  common enjoyment  by  all members of the association  /  authorized
residents  of  the  building  and  any  excess  collected  shall  remain  with  the  Association  to  be
used for future requirements of the Association.

(i)  To  take  action  against  such  owners  /  residents  who  default  on  payment  of  such
contributions  for  recovery  of  the  sum  due  by  them  to  the  association  through  legal  means,
besides  reserving  its  rights  to  deprive  such  residents  of  basic  amenities  and  initiate
proceedings for injunctive relief.

Page 18 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(j) Open a bank account or accounts in scheduled banks in the name of the Association and to
operate the same through the office bearers or committee members as maybe decided by them
and  for  that  purpose  to  sign  any  application  forms  of  the  bank,  furnish  a  copy  of  these  by
laws and rules to invest the money of the association in deposits with any nationalized bank.

(k)  Represent  the  owners  Association  and  deal  with  all  statutory  bodies  for  any  matter
relating  to  the  building  or  flats  of  members  particularly  with  the  BBMP,  BDA,
KPTCL/BESCOM, and BWSSB and other civic authorities for matters within the apartment
premises.

(l) Represent the owners’ association / members and deal with the developer for any matter
relating to the building particularly related to external structural issues.

(m) Enter into & sign contracts/agreements for the supply of goods & services on such terms
as  may  be  necessary  &  proper  for  the  maintenance  &  upkeep  of  the  building  and  all  such
contracts shall be signed jointly by the President and the Secretary or Treasurer, or by such
members of the committee as may be empowered for this purpose.

(n) Do & perform all acts, deeds & things that may be necessary or incidental for effectively
implementing the decisions of the general body.

(o) Ensure that the units or  any part thereof or  any part of the building is not  used  for  any
non-residential venture and to take suitable remedial action therefore including legal action as
decided by the committee.

(p)  Any  non-emergency  expenditure  of  more  than  Rs.  1,00,000/-  (Rupees  One  Lakh  only)
should  have  the  approval  of  the  general  body.  Such  approval  can,  however  be  obtained
through written circular from all the members. Individual approval is not needed for regular
recurring  payments  (Eg.  Payment  of  BESCOM/Utility  bills,  payment  of  salaries  etc.),  on
approval of the bye-laws. An approval by the Management Committee is deemed sufficient
for such recurring expenses.

(q)  Approval  of  the  AGM  is  also  waived  for  payment  of  civic  fees  /  taxes  or  other
assessments  payable  to  competent  authorities  or  emergency-expenses  (including  repair  /
upkeep  of  essential  infrastructure  of  the  apartment)  not  exceeding  the  amount  of  Rs.
1,00,000/-  (Rupees  One  Lakh  only).  Such  entries  shall  be  approved  by  a  majority  of
Management  Committee  members  and  regularised  /  ratified  at  the  next  immediate  AGM
/special meeting.

Page 19 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(r) The Treasurer may retain in his/her/their personal custody cash not exceeding Rs 5,000/-
(Rupees Five Thousand only) each for petty expenses. All expenses need to be duly ratified
by the Secretary & the President.

22. OTHER DUTIES:

In addition to the duties imposed by these Bye-laws, or by regulations of the Association, the
Management Committee shall be responsible for the following, that is to say:-

(a) Care, upkeep and surveillance of “Vaishnavi Oasis Block A, B and C” and the common
areas & facilities and the restricted common areas and facilities;

(b) Collection from the owners quarterly of the maintenance charges and any Municipal taxes
for common areas;

(c)  In  the  event  of  any  default  in  payment  of  maintenance  fee  to  the  Association  by  any
resident,  the  Management  Committee  may  impose  penalty  in  case  of  delay  in  payment  of
maintenance charges, Rs.100 per day of delay and if the payment of maintenance charges is
in arrears for more than three months by the member, in respect of the apartment owned by
him/her/them,  he/she/they  shall  be  denied  the  common  amenities/services  enjoyed  by  the
members  of  the  Association  or  tenants/occupants  of  the  Apartments,  in  the  building/s
‘Vaishnavi  Oasis’  Apartments  as  from  the  first  day  of  the  fourth  month  for  which
maintenance  charges  are  due,  and  such  amenities/services  shall  not  be  restored  to
him/her/them  (of  the  Apartment)  until  the  arrears  are  cleared  along  with  the  payment  of  a
penalty of Rs.100 per day or take any steps as may be necessary to recover the maintenance
amounts.

(d)  Employment,  Remuneration  and  Dismissal  or  the  personnel  necessary  for  the
maintenance  and  operation  of  the  common  areas  and  facilities  and  the  restricted  common
areas and facilities;

(e)  To  provide  for  the  manner  in  which  the  audit  and  accounts  of  the  Association,  shall  be
carried out;

(f) To inspect the accounts kept by the Treasurer and examine the registers and account books
and to take steps for the recovery of all sums due to the Association;

(g)  To  sanction  working  expenses,  for  maintenance  and  insurance  of  the  Common  Areas,
Amenities and Facilities of the Apartment Complex and all activities that benefit the Owners
in general;

Page 20 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(h) To see that the cash  book is  written up promptly, and is  signed monthly, by one of the
members of the Management Committee authorized in this behalf;

(i) Finalize the Budget to be presented to Annual General Body Meeting;

(j) Present duly audited accounts to the Annual General Body Meeting;

(k) To Authorize the President and Secretary to enter into contracts with service providers;

(l)  Write  or  maintain  or  cause  to  be  written  or  maintain  proper  book  of  accounts,  showing
therein details of all transactions, involving the finances and funds of the Association on such
terms as may be deemed fit, proper and appropriate by the committee. Such book of accounts
will be open to inspection by all members at the office of the treasurer.

(m) To hear and deal with complaints;

(n) To appoint Sub Committees from time to time.

(o) Publish periodic reports (at defined frequency) including key decisions taken.

(p)  To  generally  ensure  compliance  with  all  statutes,  rules  and  regulations  framed  by  the
Central, State or Local governments.

(q) Any major procurement/ change of Service provider (all and everything other than day to
day/ petty expenses) should be carried out through minimum of three quotations process with
shortlisted  and  qualified  vendors.  Preferably  vendor  with  lowest  quote  after  techno
commercial  evaluation  and  negotiations  should  be  selected.  Wherever  three  quotations  are
not  received,  Managing  Committee  shall  discuss  and  go  ahead  with  procurement  with  due
diligence  as  above.  However,  emergency/breakdown/OEM  purchases  up-to  Rs.10,000/-
(Rupees Ten thousand), the above process is waived.

23. ESTATE MANAGER:

(a)  The  Management  Committee  may  employ  for  the  VAISHNAVI  OASIS  APARTMENT
OWNERS’  ASSOCIATION  an  Estate  Manager  and/or  Estate  Management  Agency  at  a
compensation  determined  by  the  Management  Committee,  to  perform  such  duties  and
services  as  the  Management  Committee  shall  authorize,  including,  but  not  limited  to  the
duties listed in Bye-law more explicitly described in the appointment letter and revised time
to  time  by  the  Management  Committee.  Such  appointments  shall  be  ratified  by  the  next
immediate AGM or special meeting convened for the purpose. The Management Committee

Page 21 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
may,  by  a  Resolution,  remove,  dismiss,  or  suspend  any  employee  of  the  Association  by
following the procedures laid down in /under appropriate laws.

24. VACANCIES:

(a) Vacancies in the Management Committee caused by any reason other than removal of a
Management Committee Member by a Vote of the Association shall be filled through a by-
election  called  by  the  Management  Committee  at  its  discretion.  By-election  shall  be
conducted in the following manner.

i.  Nominations,  duly  proposed  and  seconded  by  the  Members  of  the  Apartment
Complex where vacancy exists, may be filed by Members of the Apartment Complex.

ii.  If  no  nominations  are  received  in  a  bye-election,  then  that  vacancy  will  be  left
unfilled till the next general election or bye election.

iii. Each person so elected shall be a Committee Member until a successor is elected
at the election of the Association.

(b)  A  member  who  has  served  as  a  manager  for  the  previous  term  and  currently  taking  an
electoral break is not eligible for such a selection.

(c)  Vacancies  resulting  out  of  resignation/termination  of  women  office  bearers  have  to  be
filled by women members only (Primary/Joint member or nominated representative)

25. REMOVAL OF MEMBERS OF THE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:

A duly elected Management Committee Member may be removed, citing a cause, by Owners,
by adopting the following procedure:

(a) A notice citing the reasons  for seeking to  remove the Management  Committee Member
and  signed  by  Majority  of  the  Owners  (“Petitioners”)  shall  be  deposited  with  the
Management Committee or its Secretary.

(b) The Management Committee shall within 14 (fourteen) days call for a Special Meeting of
the Members and also circulate a copy of the petition submitted by the Petitioners.

(c)  The  Management  Committee  Member  whose  removal  has  been  proposed  by  the
Petitioners shall be given an opportunity to be heard at the meeting.

(d)  At  the  Special  Meeting,  the  proposal  to  remove  the  Management  Committee  Member
shall be put to vote.

Page 22 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(e)  If  majority  of  the  Owners  of  the  Apartment  Complex  vote  for  the  removal  of  the
Management  Committee  Member,  subject  to  a  quorum  of  51%  of  the  aggregate  of  the
Owners present in person and through proxy, then the Management Committee Member shall
be deemed to have been removed from that date.

(f)    Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  these  bye-laws,  any  deviation  in  handling  accounts,
deposits, delay in submission of audited accounts beyond 6 months after closure of financial
year, members of association  can dissolve the Management committee as mentioned herein
above.

(g)  Any  such  vacancy  shall  be  filled  by  the  procedure  for  filling  vacancies  as  mentioned
herein above clause 24 -Vacancies.

26. ORGANISATION MEETING:

The First Meeting of a newly elected Management Committee shall be held within thirty days
of election at such time and place as shall be fixed by the Management Committee members
at the meeting at which such managers were elected, provided a majority (two-thirds) of the
Managers shall be present; Notice for First meeting of the Management Committee shall be
given to each Manager, personally, or by electronic means at least seven days prior to the day
named  for  such  meeting.  The  President  and  other  functionaries  shall  be  elected  by  the
Management  Committee,  at  such  time.  Each  aspirant  (elected  member)  to  the  post  of
President,  Secretary  etc.,  shall  be  nominated  by  one  elected  member  and  seconded  by  one
other, for him (her) to contest for a specific role within the office bearers. Each candidate can
offer himself for only one post.

27. REGULAR MEETINGS:

(a) Regular Meetings of the Management Committee may be held at such time and place as
shall be determined, from time to time, by a majority of Management Committee; but at least
12 (Twelve) such meetings shall be held during each year. Notice of regular meetings of the
Managing Committee shall be given to  each member, personally,  or by electronic means at
least 2 (two) days prior to the day named for such meetings. The Secretary shall maintain the
minutes of all such Management Committee Meetings in consultation with the President and
shall cause such minutes to be recorded within 30 days of the meeting so held.

(b)  Each  Committee  member  shall  be  present  for  at  least  75%  of  the  meetings  in  a  year,
failing  which he/she is liable to  be removed  from  the Management Committee. Attendance
record for the all meetings shall be maintained & made available for inspection.

Page 23 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

OR

If  any  Management  Committee  member  abstains  from  meeting  continuously  for  3  (three)
meetings  without  any  valid  reasons  or  acts  contrary  to  the  interest  of  the  Association,  such
member is liable to be removed from the Management Committee.

28. SPECIAL MEETINGS OF MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:

(a) Special Meetings of the Management Committee may be called by the President on three
days’  notice  to  each  Manager,  given  personally  or  by  electronic  means,  which  notice  shall
state the time, place (as herein above provided) and purpose of meeting. Special Meetings of
the Management Committee shall be called by the President or Secretary in like manner or on
the written request of at least five management committee members. The period of notice for
such a meeting shall be decided by the President/Secretary depending on the urgency of the
matter to be discussed at such meeting.

29. EMERGENCY MEETINGS OF THE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:

Emergency  meetings  of  the  Management  Committee  may  be  convened  by  the  President
without notice, by giving sufficient justification for convening the meeting.  All decisions of
the Emergency meeting shall be ratified at next regular Management Committee meeting.

30. WAIVER OF NOTICE:

Before,  or  at  any  meetings  of  the  Management  Committee,  any  Manager  may,  in  writing,
waive notice of such meeting, and such waiver shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of
such notice. Attendance by a Manager at any meeting of the Management Committee shall be
a waiver of notice by him of the time and place thereof. If all the Managers are present, at any
meeting of the Management Committee, no notice shall be required and any business may be
transacted at such meeting.

31. QUORUM OF MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:

(a) At all meetings of the Management Committee, at least two thirds of the total strength of
elected Managers shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the acts of the
Managers present at a meeting, at which quorum is present, shall be acts of the Management
Committee.  If,  at  any meeting of the Management  Committee, there be less  than a quorum
present,  the  majority  (two-thirds)  of  those  present  may  adjourn  the  meeting,  from  time  to
time. At any such adjourned meeting (not less than 30 minutes from the original schedule),

Page 24 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
any business which might have been transacted at the meeting, as originally called, may be
transacted  without  further  notice,  provided  there  is  a  quorum  present,  failing  which  the
decision of the President on such issue shall be considered final to be ratified by the general
body  meeting.  If  the  quorum  is  still  not  present  even  after  the  second  adjournment,  the
members present shall call for a fresh meeting.

(b) Any matters related to:

?  Finance/expenses exceeding Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand only) but less than

Rs. 1,00,000/- (Rupees One Lakh only)

?  Account  opening  in  any  Nationalized  or  Scheduled  bank,  dissolution  of  deposits

and/or investments,

?  Revision of maintenance charges / assessments
?  Termination of office bearers listed in chapter V of bye-laws,
?  Decisions leading to legal issues,
?  Work contracts towards maintenance of common amenities and any other matters are
deemed approved only when the quorum of at least two-thirds of the elected managers
are present  and at least two-thirds of those present vote in favour of the proposal or
motion.

(c)  The  management  committee  may  invite  members  not  part  of  the  board  to  attend  the
meetings  based  on  agenda  where  the  invitee  brings  subject  matter  expertise  /knowledge  /
information.  The  chairman  of  the  meeting,  usually  the  President  shall  use  due  diligence  to
permit such attendance, explicitly. Such invitees are NOT counted for the purpose of quorum.

(d)  Members  of  the  association  who  are  not  elected  members  of  the  board  can  attend  such
meetings  as  observers  (as  audience  only)  but  will  not  be  counted  for  purpose  of  quorum.
They  shall  actively  participate  in  the  discussions  related  to  the  agenda,  only  on  explicit
invitation by the President / Secretary of the meeting.

(e)  No  legal  successors  /  heirs/  representatives  of  the  deceased  Management  Committee
member  will  derive  the  right  of  membership  to  the  board,  automatically  unless  explicitly
selected by the remaining members of the management as per terms mentioned.

(f)  In  case  where  an  elected  Management  Committee  member  is  the  primary  owner  from
among the Joint owners of the property, the joint owner shall not be eligible to substitute the
primary owner (in his absence) in the/acts of the management committee.

Page 25 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

32. DECISION BY CIRCULATION:

The  Management  Committee  can  take  decision  with  regards  to  any  of  the  issues  even  by
circulation and if by circulation, the quorum required for passing of Resolution is made, the
said Resolution shall be deemed to have been passed by circulation.

33. RESIGNATION:

An  elected  Management  Committee  member  may  resign  at  any  time  by  sending  a  letter  of
resignation  to  the  President  or  in  his  absence  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Association,  but  the
resignation shall take  effect  from  the date of acceptance by the Management Committee or
one month from tendering resignation whichever is earlier.

CHAPTER – V: OFFICE BEARERS

34. ELECTION OF OFFICE BEARERS:

a)  The Office Bearers shall be President, Secretary, Treasurer and a Joint Secretary who
will  be  elected  by  the  Management  Committee,  from  among  the  Managers  within  a
period of 1 (one) month from the date of election of the Management Committee.

b)  An  electoral  officer  /  returning  officer  nominated  by  the  majority  of  Management
Committee shall  oversee the conduct  of free and fair elections as  proposed by these
bye-laws.

c)  The electoral officer is not entitled for a vote in the elections (nor other members from
his unit / family unless nominated as a proxy of another member) except for the case
where there is a tie between two or more candidates.

d)  No member (joint owner or proxy or family member) of the electoral officer will be

permitted to contest the elections for that period.

e)  The  electoral  officer  can  avail  support  from  other  members  /  external  service

providers for the conduct of such elections.

f)  Votes  cast  over  e-ballot  shall be considered valid as long as  the notice for elections
shall explicitly permit elections over online platform & mechanisms exist to validate
and  record  identity  of  the  voter  /  member  (password  protected,  single  vote

Page 26 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

management  capability  of  the  platform  is  established)  within  the  established
timelines. Display of candidate votes, leads / margins online with the vote shall not be
permitted and only the electoral officer shall be authorized to manage the account of
the platform with secure credentials.

g)  The results of the elections to the above offices have to be notified to all members of

the association within 7 days of declaration of results.

35. DESIGNATION:

The Principal Officers of the Association shall be a President, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and a
Joint Secretary all of whom shall be elected by, and from the Management Committee every
year.

36. PRESIDENT:

The President shall be the head of the Association, and shall guide and supervise its various
activities.  He  /  She  shall  preside  over  the  Annual  General,  Special,  Emergency  and  other
Management  Committee  meetings,  the  proceedings  of  which  shall  be  conducted  under  his
direction,  general  supervision.  His/her  rulings  shall  be  final  at  all  such  meetings.  He  /  She
shall  have  an  additional  “CASTING  VOTE”  in  the  event  of  a  tie  in  voting.  He  /  she  shall
have authority to sign the payments (cheque), but will only do so, if the Treasurer, Secretary
and Joint Secretary are unavailable.

37. SECRETARY & JOINT SCRETARY:

The Secretary includes Joint Secretary shall be responsible to the Management Committee for
all day to  day activities relating to  the proper management, maintenance and upkeep of the
premises and shall:

a)  Look after the administration and other affairs and attend to all correspondence;
b)   Keep  accurate  minutes  of  the  proceedings  of  all  meetings  of  the  Management

Committee, and of the Annual General and Special/Emergency Meetings;

c)  Give effect to the directions and decisions taken at such meetings;
d)  Manage and control the staff, and take disciplinary action where necessary;
e)  Institute, prosecute and defend suits and other proceedings in which the Association
may  be  involved.  Seek  inputs  and  suggestions  from  the  Legal  Counsel  of  the
VAISHNAVI OASIS Apartment Owners Association concerning matters that require
legal expertise;

Page 27 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

f)  Collect all dues to the Association and ensure through the Treasurer / Joint Treasurer,
where  appointed,  that  proper  accounts  are  maintained  of  all  financial  transactions
relating to the Association;

g)  Prepare the Annual Report, the Financial Statement of Accounts under the guidance

of the Management Committee;
h)  Maintain a Register of Members;
i)  Generally perform all such duties as are incidental to the Office of Secretary.
j)  He shall have charge of  such books and papers as the management Committee may
direct and he shall, in general, perform all the duties as authorized by the Management
Committee and incidental to the office of the Association.

k)  All  communications  on  behalf  of  the  Management  Committee  may  be  made  by  the

Secretary or the President only.

l)  Initiate,  receive  and  review  all  quotations  from  vendors  and  recommend  decision  to

the Management Committee.

m)  Present quarterly budget to the members of association.

38. TREASURER:

The Treasurer shall be responsible for the Association funds and securities and shall also be
responsible  for  keeping  full  and  accurate  accounts  of  all  receipts  and  disbursements  in  the
books belonging to the Association. He/ She shall be responsible for:

a)  The deposit of all money and other effects in the name of the Association and to credit
in  such  depositories/Banks  as  may  from  time  to  time  be  designated  by  the
Management Committee.

b)  Raising maintenance invoices periodically for all residents;
c)  Publish a monthly statement of income and expenses to the Management Committee

to ensure financial health of the Association;

d)  Publish a list of DEFAULT MEMBERS each month to the Management Committee;
e)  Maintain a list of all anticipated expenses for next 6 months and devise a plan to meet

those expenses. Ensure contingencies are accounted for;

f)  Consult  the  Legal  Counsel  for  appropriate  action  to  be  taken  against  DEFAULT

MEMBERS and bring those to the review of the Management Committee;

g)  Deposit of all money and other effects in the name and to the credit of the Association
in  such  depositories  as  may  from  time  to  time  be  designated  by  the  Management
Committee;

h)  Keep track of all assets of the Association and report any damage/theft;
i)  Engage external auditor for audit of the financial statements;

Page 28 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

j)  The  Treasurer  shall  maintain  a  cash  balance  of  INR.  5,000  (Rupees  Five  Thousand

only) for incidental expenses;

k)  Present quarterly/half yearly account statement to the members of association.
l)  Timely payment to vendors and service providers.

39. LEGAL COUNSEL / ADVISOR:

The Legal Counsel/Advisor is accountable for taking the day to day legal responsibilities and
providing legal advice that includes all the aspects of the analysis, investigation and drafting
process.  He/she is responsible for providing support in discrete legal issues by advising the
Association,  drafting  undertakings  and  structuring  remedies  for  the  relevant  issues.  His/her
responsibilities will include:

a)  Conduct legal analysis and research on various legal matters of the Association;
b)  Provide  advice  on  different  legal  issues  and  assist  in  drafting  legal  opinions,

memoranda and other briefing documents;

c)  Actively  involved  in  preparing  and  drafting  of  response  to  concerned  agencies,

government authorities and external parties;

d)  Conduct  legal  research  by  utilizing  various  resources  and  selecting  the  relevant

material to analyse the legal information;

e)  Assist  in  reviewing  the  legal  material  and  any  other  relevant  documents  and  to

identify the most important issues that need to be sorted out on a priority basis;

f)  Draw  up  formalities  regarding  the  settlement  of  disputes  and  monitor  the

implementation of the legal clauses.

g)  Given the complexity of the role and the need for a qualified professional to handle
these, the Management Committee may hire an Independent Legal Advisor and/or pay
for such services performed by a resident Legal Counsel/Advisor.

40. OPERATION OF BANK ACCOUNTS:

The  Association  shall  open  a  Bank  Account  in  any  of  the  Nationalised  /  Scheduled  Banks
which account shall be operated under the joint signatures of the President, Secretary and the
Treasurer or any other office bearer of the Management Committee,  authorized by either of
them from time to time; The approvals for bank transactions follow the below authorization
matrix:

Page 29 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

a.  Transactions  lesser  than  Rs.  50,000  to  be  operated  JOINTLY  under  the

signatures of the Treasurer AND Secretary OR Joint Secretary.

b.  Transactions  above  Rs.  50,000/-  and  less  than  Rs.  50,00,001/-to  be  operated
JOINTLY  under  the  signatures  of  the  TREASURER  AND  SECRETARY
AND PRESIDENT.

c.  For  online  transactions/payments  to  vendors,  payment  shall  be  initiated  by
treasurer  after  the  invoices  are  approved  by  President  or  Secretary/Joint
Secretary.

41. EXCESS FUND:

Any excess fund belonging to the Association can be invested in any Nationalized Banks in
any  secured  Fixed  Deposit  Schemes  or  any  other  investment  option  as  approved  by
Karnataka  Apartment  Ownership  Act,  1972,  pursuant  to  resolution  passed  by  the
Management Committee.

42. SUB-COMMITTEES:

a)  The board may appoint task forces, consulting teams / sub-committees comprising of
one or more members of the association or their spouses (not necessarily members of
the  Management  Committee)  to  assist  the  board  in  efficient  administration  of  the
association as long as each of the constituted subcommittee has at least one member
of the Management Committee on it .

b)  Such sub committees shall not have the authority to take decisions on any matters but
to  file their findings/reports/recommendations to the Management Committee which
shall ratify the findings appropriately with a two-thirds majority.

c)  In the interest of independent functioning and highest standards of governance, such
committees  shall  not  comprise  of  family  members  of  the  office  bearers  of  the
Association.

d)  All  members  of  the  Sub-Committee  shall  not  be  required  to  be  Management

Committee Members.

e)  All  Sub-Committees  shall  stand  dissolved  at  the  Annual  Meeting  and  shall  be

reconstituted afresh every year.

Page 30 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

f)  It  shall  be  competent  for  the  President  to  delegate  operational  responsibilities  to  a
Sub-Committee, but the Sub-Committees shall work within the policy parameters laid
down by the Management Committee.

g)  Minutes of the meetings of all Sub-Committees shall be submitted to the Management

Committee at its next meeting.

h)  Management Committee may abolish / reconstitute / change the terms of reference of

the Sub-Committee at its discretion after assigning specific reasons.

CHAPTER-VI:
APARTMENT OWNERS

OBLIGATIONS

OF

THE

43. ASSESSMENT:

a)  All  Owners are obliged  to  pay in  advance his/her/their monthly  assessments  on half
yearly  basis  (towards  maintenance  and  other  charges)  fixed  by  the  Association  to
meet all expenses relating to maintenance of the common areas, amenities, Building,
repairs, day to day outgoings, monthly salaries, General Operating Fund, Corpus Fund
and Sinking Fund etc., if any, for periodic repair, renovation, replacement etc.,, which
may  include  an  insurance  premium  for  a  policy  to  cover  repair  and  re-construction
work  in  case  of  hurricane,  fire,  earthquake  or  other  hazards  or  calamity.  The
assessment shall be made on pro-rata basis on the total area of the land on which the
Apartment has been constructed.

b)  The  management  committee  shall  fix  the  annual  maintenance  charges  in  a
Management  Committee meeting having  at  least 2/3rd of the total  number of elected
Management Committee members as quorum and approved by at least 3/4th of those
present.  The  presence  of  the  President,  Secretary  &  Treasurer  shall  be  considered
mandatory for such meetings. The rates shall be fixed based on ‘per sq. ft.’ basis and
payable based on the SBA of the unit as per the registered sale deed.

c)  Payments  towards  maintenance  charges  shall  become  payable  by  the  owners

irrespective of the state of occupation of the unit (occupied /unoccupied).

d)  Payments made later than the due date would attract penalty of Rs. 100 per day.

Page 31 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

e)  The  developer/Grantor  shall  pay  the  maintenance  /  assessments  or  any  charges  that
are due on account of unsold units in the apartment complex as on the date when the
payment is due.

f)  Every  Owner  who  lets  his/  her/  their  Apartment  for  occupation  by  others  on  lease,
license, tenancy, mortgage, or otherwise, shall include in the relevant lease/ tenancy
agreement, a clause as approved by the Association, binding the occupant to pay, in
proper time, the periodic maintenance assessments directly to the Association. A copy
of  the  said  lease/  tenancy  agreement,  along  with  an  undertaking  by  the  occupant  to
abide strictly by the Bye-laws of the Association, and to make payment in full, and in
time,  all  maintenance  assessment  as  raised,  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Association
before occupation of the Apartment by such occupant.

g)  The  foregoing  shall  not,  however,  absolve  the  Owner  from  his/  her/  their
responsibility to ensure that all assessments on his/ her/ their Apartment are paid on
time as specified by the Management Committee from time to time, and in the event
of any default by his/ her/ their occupant, the Owner shall himself/ herself/ themselves
make all payment as raised by the Management Committee.

h)  Subject  to  the  approval  of  the  General  Body,  the  Management  Committee  may
determine  and  collect  an  amount  towards  the  Corpus  Fund/Sinking  Fund  of  the
Association  after  giving  at  least  1  (One)  month  notice  in  advance  to  the  Members,
post the general body meeting of the Association. There shall be a penalty of Rs 100
per day for the delay in payment beyond the specified due date.

i)  Subject  to  the  approval  of  the  General  Body,  the  Management  Committee  may
determine  the  amount  of  contribution  each  Member  shall  be  required  to  pay  on  a
periodic basis, to the Corpus Fund of the Association.

j)  Once determined, the Corpus Fund contributions will be construed as a due from the
Member and all consequences of non-payment of dues as provided in these Bye-laws
or Rules and Regulations framed there under shall follow accordingly.

k)  The Corpus Fund contributions of the Members, together with interest  thereon, shall
be kept invested in a separate fixed deposit account with a nationalized bank and shall
be utilized only for meeting expenditure towards creation/ procurement of new assets
or major capital expenditures involving existing assets of the Apartment Complex.

Page 32 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

l)  The corpus fund invested in the separate fixed deposits can be withdrawn and utilised
only  with  the  consent  of  95%  of  total  owners  (256  Units)  of  the  Vaishnavi  Oasis
Apartment.

44. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:

(a) Every owner (inclusive of developer/Grantor for unsold units) must perform promptly, all
maintenance  and  repair  work  within  the  respective  Unit,  which  if  omitted  would  affect  the
building entirely or in a part belonging to other owners, being expressly responsible for the
damages and liabilities that his/her failure to do so may endanger.

In  doing  so,  the  Owner/Grantor  shall  not  make  any  alteration,  or  modification  which  may
affect  the  facade  or  the  main  structure  of  the  buildings  in  the  Apartment  Complex  or  the
common walls or floors between two Apartments.

(b)  All  the  repairs  of  internal  installations  of  the  Unit  such  as  water,  light,  gas,  power,
sewerage, telephones, air- conditioners, sanitary installations, doors, windows, lamps and all
other  accessories  belonging  to  the  Unit  area  shall  be  at  the  expense  of  the  respective
Apartment Owner/s.

(c) An owner shall reimburse to the Association for any expenditure incurred in repairing or
replacing any common area of their own and for the common area and amenities and facility
damaged through that owner's fault.

(d) No Owner shall make any structural or other modifications which may alter the facade of
the building in any way, whatsoever.

(e) The Association shall not generally refuse permission, unless the work proposed is likely
to affect adversely the safety of the building, or the installations provided therein, or alters the
facade, or inconveniences the Owners of the adjacent apartments or prohibits under the Fire
safety regulations.

(f)  In  the  event  the  Management  Committee  notices  any  modifications  made  by  the
Owner/Resident  which  are  against  the  policies  enumerated  herein  above,  the  Management
Committee can levy penalties to the extent of the damage caused by such Owner and direct
the Owner to reinstate the changes as it was earlier at the cost of the Owner.

Page 33 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

45. USE OF DWELLING UNITS/INTERNAL CHANGE:

(a)  All  Units  shall  be  utilized  for  residential  purposes  only.  Sub-letting  of  units  in  the
apartment complex for hostels / paying guest accommodations / serviced apartments shall be
considered as non-residential and are not permitted.

(b)  No  Owner/  Resident  shall  use  any  part  of  the  Apartment  for  any  commercial  purpose
whatsoever. The scope of the words “Residential” and “Commercial” shall be defined by the
Management  Committee  in  the  Rules  and  Regulations  framed  under  these  Bye-laws.  The
Management Committee may also provide such exceptions as it considers appropriate in the
general interest of the community.

(c) No Owner shall make any structural or other modifications  inside their unit, which may
alter the facade or core of the building in any way, whatsoever.

46.  USE  OF  COMMON  AREAS  AND  FACILITIES  AND  RESTRICTED
COMMON AREA AND FACILITIES:

(a) An owner/resident shall no place permanently or cause to be placed in the common roads,
corridor, lobbies, vestibules, stairways, 12th floor and 14th floor passage Area between Bock
A,  B  &  C,  elevators  and  other  areas  of  building  and  facilities  of  a  similar  nature,  both
common  and  restricted,  any  furniture  (except  shoe  racks),  packages,  or  objects of  any  kind
including but not limited to pots, floor mats, bicycles, cycles, cylinder, dust bins. Such areas
shall not be used for house parties or get together and shall be used for no other purpose than
for normal transit through them and as common use; In case of violations, penalties can be
levied by management committee as decided time to time.

(b) The Owner/resident shall use the other facilities such as common garden area in prudent
manner and any loss or damage caused to the or any of the items therein shall be paid for by
the Owner causing such damage which may include repair of such items or replacing thereof;

(c)  The  common  areas  &  free  spaces  (including  ducts)  of  the  building  of  VAISHNAVI
OASIS will be deemed a NO SMOKING / NO ALCOHOL / NO LITTERING ZONE at all
times.  Any  violations  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  Management  Committee  shall  attract
appropriate disciplinary action as defined by the Management Committee from time to time.

Page 34 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

47. RULES AND REGULATIONS:

The  Management  Committee  will  notify  the  “Rules  and  Regulations”  for  the  use  of  the
Common  Areas,  Amenities  and  Facilities  of  the  Apartment  Complex  as  well  as  for  the
General  Conduct  of  all  residents  as  provided  herein.  Provided  that  no  such  “Rules  and
Regulations” may be notified unless:

A draft is circulated by e-mail to Members at least 7 (seven) days in advance;

Members are invited to convey their objections and modifications;

Such  objections  /  modifications  are  duly  discussed  at  a  meeting  of  the  Management
Committee;

After due discussion and modifications if considered appropriate, the same is approved by the
Management Committee by a majority vote.

Rules and Regulations shall be unconditionally binding on all Owners/ Residents.

48. RIGHT OF ENTRY:

(a)  An  owner  shall  grant  the  right  of  entry  to  the  Estate  Manager  or  to  any  other  person
authorized  by  the  Management  Committee  in  case  of  any  emergency  originating  in  or
threatening his/her Unit, whether the owner is present at the time or not.

(b)  An  owner  shall  permit  the  Members  of  the  Management  Committee  or  any  person
authorized  by  them,  when  so  required,  to  enter  his/her  Unit  for  the  purpose  of  performing
installations,  alterations  or  repairs  to  the  mechanical  or  electrical  services,  civil  structure,
maintenance  of  the  fire  fighting  equipment  provided  that  requests  for  entry  are  made  in
advance and that such an entry is at a time convenient to the owner. In case of an emergency,
such right of entry shall be immediately permitted and without notice.

(c) The open area between the Blocks/Wings to be used only as open area by all the Owners.
Private functions or usage by Owners /residents will NOT be allowed.

Page 35 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

49. RULES OF CONDUCT OF OWNERS/RESIDENTS:

The  code  of  conduct  is  designed  with  keeping  the  common  interest  of  owners/residents  in
mind with the following objectives:

a.  to ensure a SAFE & SECURE living environment for the residents;

b.  to ensure COMFORTABLE and peaceful living for the residents by ensuring that the

amenities and common facilities are in good shape and available to all;

c.  to facilitate residents enjoying the benefits of COMMUNITY LIVING;

d.  to preserve and enhance the BRAND VALUE of VAISHNAVI OASIS by making it

the most desirable place to live in the city.

In addition to the following code of conduct, the Association may issue additional guidelines
in line with the above objectives. It is the responsibility of the owners to ensure that these are
communicated to the residents in their apartment and are complied with.

1.  Every  resident  shall  abide  by  the  bye-laws  of  the  Association  and  follow  all
instructions of the General Body, as conveyed through the Management Committee.

2.  Every owner shall pay quarterly assessments as fixed by the Management Committee
for the proper upkeep and maintenance of the Building, which may include payments
to  Reserve  Fund/Corpus  and  Sinking  Fund,  if  any  for  periodic  repair,  renovation,
replacements etc. These assessments may include an insurance premium for a policy
to  cover  the  cost  of  repair  of  damages  caused  by  natural  calamities  including
accidental fire.

3.  The assessments shall be paid within the prescribed time and place, failing which the
services rendered by the association may be forfeited, as provided for in the Bye-laws
herein under.

4.  Every  owner  who  lets  his/her/their  apartment  for  occupation  by  other  on  lease,
tenancy, mortgage or otherwise, shall include in the relevant Agreement, a clause as
approved  by  the  Association,  binding  the  occupant  to  pay,  in  proper  time,  the
quarterly maintenance assessments DIRECTLY to the Association.

5.  A  copy  of  the  said  Agreement,  along  with  an  undertaking  by  the  occupant  to  abide
strictly by the bye-laws of the Association, and to make payments in full, and in time,
all maintenance assessments as raised, shall be submitted to the Association BEFORE
occupation of the Apartment.

6.  This, however, shall not absolve the Owner from his/her/their responsibility to ensure
all the assessments on his/her/their Apartment are paid in time and in full as specified

Page 36 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

by the Management Committee from time to time, and in the event of any default by
his/her/their  tenant/occupant,  shall  himself/herself/themselves  make  all  payments  as
raised by the Management Committee.

7.  Every Owner shall perform promptly all maintenance and repair work within his own
apartment,  which  if  omitted  would  affect  the  building  in  entirety,  or  in  a  part
belonging to other owners being expressly responsible for the damages and liabilities
that  his/her/their  failure  to  do  so  may  endanger.  In  doing  so  he/she/they  shall  not
make  any  alteration,  or  modification  which  may  affect  the  facade  or  the  main
structure of the building or the common walls or floors between two units.

8.  Every  owner/Resident  shall  fully,  and  without  delay,  reimburse  the  Association  for
any  expenditure in  repairing or replacing  any damages to  the  building  including the
Common Areas and facilities caused through his/her/their fault or negligence.

9.  Every  Owner/Resident  shall  ensure  that  the  Apartment  is  not  used  for  any  purpose
other than residential, except with the express, written permission of the Management
Committee  and  that  other  spaces  allotted  to  him/her/them  is  utilized  only  for  the
specified purposes for which the allotments are made. No Owner/ Resident shall use
any part of the Premises for any commercial purpose whatsoever.

10. Every Owner/Resident shall ensure that his/her/their children play only at designated
Kids  play  area  (For  Kids  aged  below  10  years).  The  Owner/Resident  should  take
adequate  care  that  no  damage  is  done  to  the  building  including  common  areas  and
facilities.  The  cost  of  repairing  any  damages,  at  the  discretion  of  the  Management
Committee, will be charged to the Owner's account.

11. Every  Owner  /  Resident  shall  ensure  that  the  Building  and  the  Common  Areas  are
kept  clean  and  tidy  in  all  respects  and  that  garbage  or  trash  is  thrown  only  in  the
disposal installations provided for such purposes by the Association.

12. Every Owner/Resident shall ensure that the rights and privileges of other owners are

respected and that no inconvenience is caused to them in any manner.

13. Only one family (plus house help) may occupy one apartment. Subletting or sharing
an  apartment,  whether  for  monetary  benefit  or  otherwise  is  not  permitted.  House
Help’s family is not to be permitted to share the apartment. Only one House Help can
stay in the apartment.

14. Every  Owner/Resident  shall  ensure  that  the  staff  employed  by  him/her/them  bear  a
good character and shall be responsible for their behavior and actions while in his /her
/ their service. They should provide all necessary credentials of the staff employed by
them to the association.

Page 37 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

15. Every Owner/Resident shall use the elevators in such a manner as not to damage them
in  any way. Other than luggage, no package, box, crate or any other article shall be
permitted, except with the permission of the Management Committee. No single item
weighing 50 Kgs and above shall be allowed without the prior permission and in the
presence  of  a  representative  of  the  Management  Committee.  Only  Service  elevators
will  be  used  to  transport  heavy  materials/Carton  Box/Glass  panels/Paint  Bucket/
Furniture etc.

16. Every Owner/Resident shall exercise due care about making noise or any kind or use
musical  instruments,  radios,  television  sets,  amplifiers  etc.,  that  may  disturb  other
residents. This restriction is particularly applicable from 10.30 PM to 6.00 AM on all
days.

17. The terrace and common areas shall not be used for storage of packing materials. The
occupant of the flat shall dispose the packing materials, waste items, shifting materials
etc., with utmost care and shall dispose only in the manner prescribed and not in any
other manner and place.

18. Every Owner shall furnish relevant particulars of any  person/ persons other than the
Owners  themselves  in  occupation  of  his/her/their  Apartment  as  when  sought  by  the
Management Committee. A letter of authorization for such occupation shall be given
to the Management Committee before the occupation.

19. Every  Owner  should  inform  the  Association  in  advance  about  the  change  in
occupancy of their apartment. The Owner/Resident should take adequate care that no
damage is done to lifts or any other common area due to this movement. The cost of
repairing  any  major  damages,  at  the  discretion  of  Management  Committee,  will  be
charged to the Owner's account.

20. No  Owner  shall  sell,  or  otherwise  transfer  his  /  her  /  their  Apartment  to  anyone
without prior notice to the Association and/ or without paying in full all amounts due
to the Association and obtaining a "NO DUES CERTIFICATE" from the Association.
Any default in this regard will result in the transferee being denied any or all of the
services  rendered  by  the  Association  including  the  supply  of  services  that  require
upkeep and maintenance on a regular basis, unless the transferee undertakes in writing
to pay all the dues and does so before occupation of the Apartment.

21. The  Owner/resident  of  the  apartment  shall  carry  out  any  plumbing,  electrical,  wood
work, carpentry or renovation works only during the working hours 9.00 AM to 6.00
PM and excluding the rest hours 2.00 P.M. to 4.00 P.M. Carrying out any such work
shall be intimated to the Management Committee in advance at least 24 hours before
commencement  of  any  work,  and  only  after  getting  approval  from  the  Management
Committee  shall  commence  such  work,  except  certain  emergency  repair  work
(Water/Electricity). Any extension of time and working hours shall be informed and

Page 38 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

only upon express approval by the Management Committee shall carry out such work.
No such work will be carried out on Sundays and national public holidays.

22. The Owner/Resident  will  keep  a  refundable interest  free security deposit  as decided
by  the  association  time  to  time,  along  with  the  application  for  carrying  out  any
modification  or  alteration  or  repair.  This  security  deposit  will  be  refunded  within  7
days  of  owner/resident  indicating  that  they  have  complete  the  work,  subject  to
deduction against damages to common areas and debris removal.

23. No Owner/Resident shall use any portion of the Common area of the Building without
the  written  permission  of  the  Management  Committee  for  private  functions.  The
Management Committee may grant permission for such occupation, for short periods,
for marriages or other social functions, at their discretion, provided that the premises
so used is released in the same condition as it was taken, and the cost of cleaning the
premises, or repairing damages if any, is borne by the user.

24. No  Owner/Resident  shall  park  his/her/their  vehicles  except  at  the  place  allotted  to
him/her/them.  Visitors'  vehicles  shall  be  parked  only  in  the  designated  area  in  the
building.  All  the  Vehicles  of  the  residents  must  have  the  Association  sticker
permanently fixed.

25. No Owner/Resident shall install any machinery, or equipment, like generators etc., in
the Common Areas, especially in the lobbies or under staircase that makes a noise, or
causes disturbances to other residents, in any way.

26. No Owner/Resident shall put up any hoarding, advertisement, notice, or poster of any

kind, in or on the Building, except as authorized by the Association.

27. No Owner/Resident shall hang garments, rugs, etc.  or shall dust rugs in any manner

on the Common Areas, including the lobbies and landings.

28. No  Owner/Resident  shall  install  wiring  for  electrical,  telephone,  or  fax  machines,
television  antennae,  air-conditioning  units,  or  machines  on  the  exterior  of  the
Building, which protrudes through, or above the walls or roof, except as authorized by
the Management Committee.

29. No Owner / Management Committee Member /Resident strictly shall engage any staff

of the Association for any personal work during office hours.

30. No Owner/ Management Committee Member /Resident, or any person connected with
him/her/them, shall cause any damage, whatsoever, to any asset of the Association. In
the  event  of  so  doing,  the  full  cost  of  repairing  such  damage  shall  be  borne  by  the
Owner/Resident.

Page 39 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

31. No Owner/ Management Committee Member/Resident shall use the Common Areas,
including Limited Areas, for any purpose which may hurt the sentiments, or feelings
of any of the residents. The decision of the Management Committee shall be final in
any case of difference of opinion.

32. No Owner/Management Committee Member/Resident shall object to any work being
undertaken  by  the  Management  Committee  which  is  in  the  common  interest  of  the
Owners, even if such work may cause some inconvenience to him/her/them.

33. No Owner/Management Committee Member/Resident shall, under any circumstances,
threaten, abuse, reprimand, assault or in any way take up with the staff employed by
the  Association,  but  may  report  any  misbehavior,  or  neglect  of  duty  by  them  to  the
Management Committee.

34. The Management Committee may request the owners/residents to desist from keeping
a  pet  if  there  are  reasonable  complaints  from  the  residents  against  it.  Dogs  should
always  be  on  a  leash  or  carried  while  using  the  common  areas.  The  pets  should  be
immunized regularly and the reports should be given to the manager of the building.
Residents  keeping  pets  shall  abide  by  the  Municipal  Sanitary  Bye-Laws  or
Regulations.  Terrace  is  not  to  be  used  as  toilets  for  pets.  In  case  of  pet  poops  in
common  areas,  respective  owners  shall  ensure  to  get  the  area  cleaned  at  their  own
cost.

35. All  Owners/Residents  are  governed  by  the  Gym,  Clubhouse  and  Swimming  pool

usage rules which may be placed on all notice boards from time to time.

36. In  case  of  inter  apartment  seepage/  leakages,  except  due  to  inherent  defect  arising
during  the  construction  of  the  building,  the  management  committee  shall  fix  the
responsibility,  in  consultation  with  the  concerned  apartment  owners,  who  shall  be
responsible to repair the same at their own cost and the decision of the management
committee shall be final and binding on the owner/ s concerned.

37. Any  Owner  who  fails  to  pay  for  three  months,  or  more,  from  the  due  date,  any
amounts due to the Association, shall be deemed a "'DEFAULTING MEMBER", and
shall be debarred from voting, or standing for election to the Management Committee.

38. Non-payment of dues to the Association for three months or over shall constitute just
and sufficient reasons, for the Management Committee to deny the use of any, or all,
of the facilities and services, offered to its Members, PROVIDED that due notice in
writing, which shall not be less than seven days, is given to the Defaulting Member.
The Notice shall be sent by Registered Post.  In the event of the registered letter not
being  accepted  by  the  Defaulting  Member,  the  Notice  shall  be  affixed  to  the  main
door  of  his/her/their  Apartment,  and  also  put  up  on  the  Notice  Board  of  the
Association  for  the  information  of  its  Members.  On  expiry  of  seven  days  from  the
date  the  Notice  is  posted  on  the  door  of  the  defaulting  Member's  Apartment,  the
Association  shall  be  entitled  to  initiate  action  for  withdrawing  its  services  to  the
Page 40 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

defaulting  member  (the  services  to  be  withdrawn  may  include,  entry  of  vehicles,
collection  of  garbage,  use  of  DG  power,  intercom,  use  of  common  facilities  like,
clubhouse, party hall, badminton court, tennis court, basketball court, gym, kids play
area and swimming pool).

39. In  the  event  of  default  in  payment  of  dues  to  the  Association  for  three  months,  or
more,  the  Association  shall  have  the  right  to  deduct  such  dues,  from  any
Deposits made (if any) by the Defaulting Member and held by the Association along
with the penal interest that may be fixed by the Association. And the association may
initiate appropriate legal action to recover the dues against such defaulting member in
accordance with law.

40. Terrace of each block will be under lock and key of the Association. Use of Terrace
by Owners/residents for any purpose /activity will be not permitted. Any temporary or
permanent  structure will not  be allowed to  be set  on the terrace.  If such  structure is
erected  in  spite  of  the  objection  of  the  Management  Committee,  the  same  will  be
demolished  at  the  expense  of  the  owner.  This  clause  is  to  be  noted  and  shall  be
binding on all the members of the Association and will be enforced without any fear
or favor.

41. Consumption  of  Alcohol,  Drugs  and  similar  substance  in  common  areas  (terrace,
gym, social hall etc.,) is illegal and is liable for severe punishment including a formal
report to authorities concerned.

42. Apartment  Owners  shall  not  use  their  flats  for  any  illegal  or  immoral  purposes
(gambling, betting, prostitution, terrorism, anti-social movements etc.,) All violations
in this regard will be liable for severe punishments and prosecution.

43. Club  House  Party  Hall  for  private  use  by  the  members/residents  will  be allowed  by
paying a usage  charge and cleaning charges which will be fixed by the Association,
from time to time. The allotment of the Club House Hall will be done on a first cum-
first serve basis by booking in My gate or such other mode fixed by Association from
time to time and advance user charge deposit. Usage shall be subjected to guidelines
prescribed from time to time.

44. Usage of common properties such as Club House, Yoga/Meditation space, Gym, and
open  space/Lawn  areas  are  restricted  only  to  the  residents.  Any  type  of  commercial
activities  open  for  all  residents  (no  individual  trainers),  such  as  conducting
training/coaching  classes  shall  be  allowed  to  be  conducted  only  in  Club  House  &
Yoga/meditation space. No outside participants can use this facility.

45. Gym,  Swimming  Pool,  Badminton  court,  Basketball  Court,  Tennis  Court,  Skating
area,  Table  Tennis,  Carrom,  Chess  and  Kids  Area  usage  by  guest  of  the
Member/resident will be as per the guidelines fixed by the association, from time to
time.

Page 41 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

46. All the Flat Owners /residents if have any complaints regarding any facilities should
register in  the  My  gate complaint. No oral  complaints will be entertained. Secretary
should make sure that all complaints should be resolved within time limits.

47. Converting  any  existing  amenities  /  facilities  available  in  the  VAISHNAVI  OASIS
apartment complex provided by the Builders shall be made only with the approval of
95% of the owners of the Association.

48. The  Owners  /  residents  should  exercise  extreme  care  when  placing  pots  along  the
balcony.  The  Owners/residents  will  be  liable  for  such  damage  that  may  occur  from
falling pots and installations. Apartments with soiled walls from muddy water running
down  it  will  be  charged  a  punitive  fine  to  cover  the  cost  of  repainting  the  damaged
wall.

49. Leasing / Letting out of allotted parking space/visitor parking lot to non-residents of

VAISHNAVI OASIS shall not be permitted.

Any violations of the code of conduct brought to the notice of the Management Committee
attract disciplinary action as deemed appropriate.

50. CLAUSE ON PENALTY:

1.  Confidential Notice to the Owner/resident via Registered Email
2.  Confidential Notice to the Owner/Residents via Registered post
3.  Published Notice including in common area/ office/ Notice board
4.  Withdrawal  of  Services  under  common  area.  (DG  power  /Swimming  pool/Club

House/Garbage collection/ Mygate entry or exit etc.)

5.  Initiate legal action
6.  Reporting to appropriate authorities as per the law of the land.

CHAPTER – VII FUNDS AND THEIR
INVESTMENTS

51. FUNDS:

Funds may be raised by the Association in all or any of the following ways namely:

(a)  by contributions and donations from the apartment owners
(b) from common profits which shall form the nucleus of the Reserve Fund;
(c)  any  transfer  effected  by  any  of  the  Owner,  such  transfer  will  be  subject  to  payment  of

transfer fee as described in sec 5(b)

Page 42 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

(d) Move-in and move out charges for each unit as described in sec 62(c) and 62(d).
(e)  Corpus Fund deposits that may be authorized in any Annual General body Meeting.
(f)  Royalty from vendors / service providers
(g)  Rentals / Lease and Security deposits from vendors / service providers and bank interest

on advances received from vendors

(h) Raising invoices for maintenance, deposit to BWSSB towards Cauvery water connection,

corpus, sinking fund etc.

(i)  Protection of Corpus and/or its use: Interest, if any earned on the principal amount can be
used by the Management Committee for the purposes for which the corpus fund shall be
utilised,  subject  to  approval  at  the  AGM.  Should  there  be  any  necessity  for  the
Management Committee to use the corpus for any specific purpose, it can do so only after
obtaining such clearances from association members by calling either an EGM or AGM.

52. INVESTMENT:

The Association may invest or deposit its funds in one or more of the following:

?
?
?

In any Nationalized Bank, approved for this purpose by the association

In any of the securities specified in Section 20 of the Indian Trust Act, 1882;

In  any  govt.  securities,  govt.  bonds,  secured/unsecured  debentures,  as  approved  for
this purpose by the Association.

53. AFFILIATION:

Should  there  be  any  Federation  of  Associations  of  Apartment  Owners  in  Bangalore,  the
Association  may  become  a  member  thereof  and  pay  the  contribution  from  time  to  time
payable to such Federation under its rules.

54. ACCOUNTS:

(a) A Banking Account shall be opened by the Association into which all money received on
behalf of the Association shall be paid, provided that the Treasurer or Secretary  may retain in
his / her personal custody an amount not exceeding Rs.5,000/-(Rupees Five Thousand only)
for  petty  expenses.  All  payments  above  Rs.5,000/-  (Rupees  Five  Thousand  only)  shall  be
made by through bank as per bye-laws described in Clause 40 (Operation of Bank Accounts).

(b)  Any  Estate  Manager  and  /  or  Accounts  Manager  appointed  by  the  Board  of  Members
shall maintain the proper accounts with regards to all the expenses incurred for the Building;

Page 43 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(c) The Association shall, on or before 31st July in each year (120 days from the closure of
the financial  year), publish an audited annual financial statement  in  respect  of the common
areas and facilities containing: -

the profit and loss accounts

the receipts and expenditure of the previous financial years

?
?
?  a summary of the property and assets and liabilities of the common areas and
facilities of the Association giving particulars as will disclose the general
nature of  these liabilities and assets and how the value of fixed assets has
been arrived at;

(d)  The  Audited  Financial  Statement  shall  be  open  to  the  inspection  or  any  member  of  the
Association, during office hours and in the office of the Association and a copy thereof shall
be  submitted  to  the  Competent  Authority  as  are  required  by  law  within  the  time  frame
prescribed in the respective enactments in force in the State of Karnataka;

(e)  Every  Financial  Statement  shall  be  accompanied  by  a  complete  list  of  the  Apartment
Owners as on 31st March of each year. There shall also accompany the financial Statement, a
similar  list  of  defaulters  (including  owners  with  outstanding  dues  towards  the  association).
The Financial Statement shall state up to what date profits and expenses of common areas are
included;

55. PUBLICATION OF ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS:

A copy of the last Financial Statement and of the Report of the Auditor, if any, shall be kept
in a conspicuous place in the Office of the Association;

The Management Committee shall also circulate by e-mail income and expenses half yearly
cumulative position for the Financial Year, no later than 30 days from the end of half year.

56. APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS:

The  Association  shall  appoint  at  its  General  Body  Meeting,  an  Auditor  who  shall  audit  the
accounts  of  the  Association  to  be  prepared  by  the  Management  Committee  as  hereinbefore
provided;  and shall examine the annual  return and verify the same, with  the accounts to  be
correct,  and  shall  either  sign  the  same  as  found  by  him  to  be  correct,  duly  vouched  and  in
accordance  with  law;  or  specially  report  to  the  Association,  in  what  respect  he  finds  it
incorrect, un-vouched or not in accordance with law.

Page 44 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

57. POWER OF AUDITOR:

The Auditor shall be entitled to call for and examine any papers or documents belonging to
the Association relating to the common areas and facilities (including limited common area
and facilities) and common expenses and shall make a special report to the Association upon
any matter connected with the accounts which appears to him to require notice.

58. NOTICE TO ASSOCIATION:

The mortgagee of a unit shall notify the Manager/Association, of any such defaults of a Unit
before taking any actions / auctions / legal proceedings.

59. NOTICE OF UNPAID ASSESSMENTS:

The mortgagee of a unit shall, clear all dues pending to the association / unpaid assessment
due from the owner of such unit before initialising any legal proceedings.

60. APPOINTMENT OF LEGAL ADVISOR:

The Association shall when the circumstances so demand appoint a qualified legal advisor to
deal  with  issues  requiring  such  services  in  the  interest  of  the  Association  and  its  members
from  time  to  time.  Such  appointments  will  be  made  on  terms  and  conditions  and  on  such
remuneration and for such specific period as may be decided by the management committee.

61. MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS:

A.  BOOKS  AND  RECORDS:  Any  member  shall  have  the  right  to  inspect  free  of  cost
books, registers and documents, minutes, etc., relation to the affairs of the Association
and  get  copies  of  the  documents  on  payment  of  fees  as  may  be  prescribed  by  the
committee by intimating his will in writing to the Association.

B.  SUE AND BE SUED: The Association being jurisdictional person can sue in its own
name  represented  by  the  President  or  Secretary  in  all  common  causes  whenever  a
legal  action  is  found  necessary,  the  members  of  the  Association  jointly  act  and
institute  action  through  the  Association  representing  them  and  not  individually  or
separately. This however is not applicable for the dispute between the members or of
personal nature where they go for arbitration or other lawful remedies.

C.  INDEMNIFICATION OF ACTS DONE IN GOOD FAITH: The Members shall keep
indemnified  and  hold  harmless  the  Management  Committee  from  and  against  any
losses,  costs,  damages,  and  expenses  resulting  from  claims  for  bodily  injury  or
property  damage  or  any  other  claims  arising  out  of  actions  in  discharge  of  their

Page 45 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

functions  unless  such  bodily  injury,  property  damage,  or  personal  injury  or  cost  is
determined to be the result of the undue negligence or mala fide motives.

D.  ARBITRATION  OF  DISPUTES  AMONGST  MEMBERS:  If  a  dispute  arises
between  a  Member  or  group  of  Members  ("Petitioners")  and  the  Management
Committee, regarding the legality of the decision of the Management Committee or in
respect  of  interpretation  of  any  provision  of  the  Bye-laws  or  Rules  and  Regulations
framed there under, then the Petitioners shall request the Management Committee to
frame the question and refer it to a panel of 3 (three) Arbitrators for settlement of the
dispute through Arbitration.

Provided, however, that the Management Committee shall not be obliged to refer any
differences occurring prior to its decision or in relation to the pros and cons of such
decision, for settlement by arbitration.

The Management Committee and the Petitioners shall mutually agree on the choice of
the  Arbitral  Panel  comprising  a  minimum  of  3  (three)  Arbitrators,  who  shall  be
respected    members  who  are  not  a  part  of  the  Management  Committee  within  the
VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT community and who have no conflict of interest
in deciding the dispute.

The decision of the Arbitrators shall be final and binding on the Parties.

E.  PUBLIC  LIABILITY  INSURANCE  FOR  MISHAPS  IN  THE  COMMON  AREAS,
AMENITIES  AND  FACILITIES  OF  THE  APARTMENT  COMPLEX:  The
Association  in  a  General  Meeting  may  decide  the  quantum  of  Public  Liability
Insurance  that  may  be  taken  out  to  cover  any  mishaps  in  the  Common  Areas,
Amenities  and  Facilities  of  the  Apartment  Complex.  The  Association  and  the
Members / persons authorized by the Members, agree that they shall be bound by the
terms of such Public Liability Insurance Policy.

Page 46 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
Chapter  –  VIII:  RENTALS,  LEASES  &  SERVICE
PROVIDERS

62. RENTING / LEASING OUT OF UNITS:

Individual Owners

(a) The units may be rented out / leased for residential purposes only. Sub-letting of units in
the apartment complex for hostels / paying guest accommodations (by companies other than
for  its  employees)  /  serviced  apartments  shall  be  considered  as  non-residential  and  are  not
permitted.

(b) The owners shall be responsible to update the Association with the list of all occupants of
their apartment with full details (Name, ID proof etc.). Information of due diligence checks &
verifications if any performed on the tenants is maintained in the occupancy register.

(c) The move-in shall attract a move-in fee of Rs. 1000/- (One Thousand only) or any such
sum in force at the time of change of occupant.

(d) All move-outs will be liable for a move-out fee of Rs. 1000/- (Rupees Thousand only) or
any such sum in force at the time of movement, as defined by the Management Committee
from time to time.

(e) All tenancy agreements should explicitly include

?  Reference to the bye-laws, code of conduct etc. and a mention of possible

Intervention  /  action  by  the  Management  Committee  in  case  of  violations
and/or complaints from other residents.

?  The names / identity of all individual occupants of the unit updated at all times

in the occupancy register of the association.

(f) Sub-letting / direct transfer of lease by tenants is not permitted.

(g)  Charges  if  any  (including  periodic  maintenance,  move-in  /  move-out  charges)  shall  be
billed in the name of the owner only. Adjustments if any with the tenant for such payments
are the responsibility of the owner of such unit.

(h)  On  receipt  of  complaints  if  any,  related  to  the  behaviour  of  tenants  that  are  either  in
violation  of  the  code  of  conduct  or  other  nuisance  /  problem  created  to  other  residents,  the

Page 47 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
Management  Committee  is  authorised  to  initiate  disciplinary  actions  against  such  tenants
/residents. The owner of the unit will be informed of such pending action / given a hearing
before initiating disciplinary action except in such cases where the action is initiated by or in
response to the notices of the law enforcement authorities.

When owners are companies / corporates

(i)  Shall  nominate  an  official  point  of  contact  from  the  company  for  all  correspondences/
communication with the Association.

(j) The units shall be used for residential  purposes only. (Eg. Usage as  a warehouse /office
not permitted / serviced apartment for usage by anyone other than its employees).

(k) The unit /  common amenities of  VAISHNAVI  OASIS shall not  be used for conducting
any official parties / gatherings / meetings.

(l) Usage of the unit is restricted to its own employees / their families.

(m) In cases where the unit would be used as a corporate guest house / temporary residence /
serviced apartment with changing occupants, the following would apply.

?  The  company  will  maintain  a  visitor  register  with  sign-in  /  sign  out  records
updated at all times. The same need to be produced for inspection by the office
bearers of the association, on demand.

?  Occupants shall carry the company photo-ID and a letter issued by the official
point of contact for the association authorizing the bearer to use the unit for a
defined  period  at  the  time  of  check-in.  Security  reserves  the  right  to  reject
admissions for those visitors without the above records.

(n) The occupants shall adhere to the code of conduct and other rules of the bye laws at all
times  and  violations  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  Management  Committee  will  attract
disciplinary action as deemed appropriate by the Management Committee. The Management
Committee  shall  make  all  efforts  to  keep  the  official  point  of  contact  of  the  apartment
informed  of  any  such  impending  action,  unless  the  action  is  initiated  by  or  in  response  to
notices from the law enforcement agencies.

(o)  A  one-time  move-in/move  out  charge  of  Rs.  1000/-  (Rs.  One  thousand  only)  or  any
amount that is defined by the Management Committee is chargeable.

Page 48 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
(p)  Periodic  maintenance  fees  /  charges  /  assessments  as  applicable  to  all  units  shall  be
applicable to such units owned by companies / association of persons.

(q)  Vehicle(s)  associated  with  such  occupants  shall  be  parked  only  in  the  parking  area
associated with the unit.

The  Association  will  have  first  lien  over  the  rent  payable  or  over  the  sale  proceeds  in  the
event of any default by any Member in paying the dues.

63. VENDORS AT VAISHNAVI OASIS:

(a)  The  Management  Committee  shall  be  authorized  to  appoint  vendors  for  the  following
services on behalf of the association under such terms & conditions as provided by these bye-
laws.

?  Vendor  for  common  amenities  (ex.,  Water,  Repair,  Gardening,  Security,

Housekeeping ,Ironing and connectivity services) and

?  Any other services that would impact peaceful enjoyment of the condominium

amenities.

(b) The choice of vendors & appropriate service charges fixed thereon by the association for
availing such services will be binding on the residents and the vendors.

(c)  The  process  of  selection  of  the  vendor  is  to  be  approved,  documented  /  recorded  in  a
meeting of the Management Committee with at least two-thirds of the total quorum. At least
3 comparable vendors have to be evaluated for each type of service, before finalization.

(d) The Management Committee shall fix such charges for each service as appropriate after
exercising due diligence and share the basis for such calculations.

(e)  The  terms  of  award  of  contract,  service  level  agreement,  service  performance,  renewal,
charges  /  assessments  &  termination  conditions  have  to  be  explicitly  spelt  out  in  the
agreement executed between the vendor & Management Committee.

(f) Services of the vendor shall be evaluated periodically for strict performance and renewal /
termination decisions and related terms/conditions shall be taken in timely fashion.

(g) The Management Committee shall also diligently approve such requests from vendors as
conducting road-shows,  product  promotion campaigns etc., at  the common amenities of the
building on a case to case basis – on receipt of a stipulated payment described for the purpose

Page 49 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India
in a Management Committee meeting. Participation in such campaigns is not binding on the
residents.

(h)  The  Management  Committee  and  the  association  shall  discourage  monopoly  of  any
vendor  over  a  service/set  of  services  and  shall  encourage  free  &  fair  chance  for  multiple
vendors to provide the residents the freedom of choice.

(i) When hiring of multiple vendors, for a given service is not possible for reasons that may
compromise the safety /  peace/ environment of the building or residents, then the exclusive
contract shall be approved in a Management Committee meeting called for the purpose and
voted for the proposal by a Management Committee majority not less than two-thirds of the
quorum. The waiver of the condition of fair competition and reason for exclusivity shall be
recorded in the minutes of meeting and made available to all members through notice boards,
email messages etc.

(j)  The  association  /  management  committee  shall  not  make  decisions  of  hiring  /  assigning
such vendors whose services shall be construed as personal in nature(e.g. Maids / assistants,
Drivers/cooks etc.,), but can lay down a set of guidelines (not rules) to be followed in such
cases, though they may not be binding on the resident.

(k)  The  vendor  shall  provide  related  services  only  on  receipt  of  formal  approval  by  the
association. The Secretary shall ensure that the updated list of approved vendors along with
service rendered shall be maintained at all times.

(l) Such vendors shall refrain from using the common amenities as to facilitate exclusive use
of amenities by the residents.

(m)  Residents  are  free  to  have  their  own  service  providers  for  individual  purposes,  inside
their  unit.    Such  services  should  not  be  utilized  in  the  common  areas  (like  the  club  house,
gym, play area, pool, etc.)

(n) Adding fixtures for purposes of availing services that can alter the elevation or appearance
of the building or affect electrical / cabling / other components shall not be permitted.

(o) Vendors / service Providers who do not use common amenities (eg. Tutors/ teachers) or
payment.

(p) Vendors/ service providers for conducting coaching classes to all residents or kids (not on
private  basis)  like  summer  camps  (Swimming/  Tennis  /  Badminton),  shall  be  liable  to  pay
management fees and security deposit to the association as agreed from time to time.

Page 50 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

CHAPTER - IX: COMPLIANCE

64. COMPLIANCE:

These Bye-laws are set forth to comply with the requirements of the Karnataka Apartment
Ownership Act, 1972. In case, any of these Bye-laws conflict with the provision of the said
Act, it is hereby agreed and accepted that the provisions of the Act will apply;

65. SEAL OF THE ASSOCIATION:

The  Association  shall  have  a  common  seal,  which  shall  be  in  the  custody  of  the  Secretary,
and shall be used only under the authority of a resolution of the Management Committee, and
every deed of instrument, to which the seal is affixed, shall be attested for or on behalf of the
Association by two members of the Management Committee and the Secretary or any other
person  authorized  by  the  Association  in  that  behalf  and  chronological  record  of  use  of  the
seal shall be maintained in a register kept for the purpose.

CHAPTER – XI: AMENDMENTS TO BYE LAWS
APARTMENT OWNERSHIP

66. AMENDMENT OF BYE-LAWS:

These  Bye-laws  may  be  amended  by  the  Association  in  the  general  body  meeting  (AGM)/
special  meeting  duly  constituted  meeting  for  such  purpose  (whose  notice  is  signed  by  the
Secretary and / or the President). The quorum requirements for the amendment of bye laws
would be the same applicable for the respective meetings in which such agenda is tabled and
explained by the notice for the meeting.

Page 51 of 52

VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT OWNERS’
ASSOCIATION

Registered Office: VAISHNAVI OASIS APARTMENT
Survey No.93, Anjanapura 60 ft Road, J P Nagar 9th Phase,
Bangalore South Taluk, Bengaluru – 560108, Karnataka, India

CHAPTER – XIII: VAISHNAVI OASIS EVENTS

67. EVENTS:

An amount of Rs.6,000/- each (Rs. 18,000/- in total) will be set aside for conducting Republic
Day,  Independence Day  and Rajyothsava Day. This  amount shall not  be carried forward to
any other event or to the next year.

SIGNED,  SEALED  AND  DELIVERED  BY  THE  FOLLOWING  MEMBERS  OF  THE
ASSOCIATION.

(All  are  resident-owners  of  ‘VAISHNAVI  OASIS  APARTMENT’  situated  at  Vaishnavi
Oasis)

Management Committee Members:

REPRESENTED BY:

______________________

_____________

(PRESIDENT)

______________________

_____________

 (SECRETARY)

______________________

_____________

 (TREASURER)

THESE  BYE  LAWS  ARE  UPDATED  AS  AMENDED  IN  THE  ______________
ANNUAL  GENERAL  MEETING  OF  THE  MEMBERS  OF  THE  ASSOCIATION  HELD
ON _____ FEBRUARY 2024.

P R E S I D E N T                          S E C R E T A R Y                          T R E A S U R E R

Page 52 of 52


